 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ISSUE OF A CIRCULAR. 
     
      
       asked the President whether his attention has been called to a private and confidential printed circular purporting to be signed by Patrick McGilligan, in his official capacity as &ldquo;Minister for Industry and Commerce and External Affairs,&rdquo; appealing for financial assistance &ldquo;on behalf of the Government Party&rdquo;; whether the circular was issued in this manner with the sanction of the Minister, and, if so, whether it is customary for Ministers to use their Ministerial office as a means of replenishing party funds, or, if the appeal was not issued with the official sanction of the Minister, what steps are to be taken to remove the false impression that the appeal was issued in the normal course of Ministerial duties. 
     
     
      
       I have seen a copy of the circular referred to.  It is issued from the official headquarters of the Cumann na nGaedheal organisation, and it is abundantly clear from its terms that it was issued by and on behalf of that organisation, and was signed by Mr. McGilligan in his capacity as a member of the Executive Committee of that organisation.  I cannot conceive how anybody who received and read the circular could be under the misapprehension that it was issued in the ordinary course of Ministerial duties, or that the description of Mr. McGilligan as Minister for Industry and Commerce and for External Affairs could serve any purpose other than that of identification. 
     
     
     
      
       Is the President aware that the circular is actually signed &ldquo;Patrick McGilligan, Minister for Industry and Commerce and for External Affairs?&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Was that put in only for the purpose of identifying Patrick McGilligan as a Minister rather than as an officer of Cumann na nGaedheal? 
     
     
      
       Identification pure and simple. 
     
     
      
       And is that the reason the appeal was made on behalf of the Government Party?  Would the President say which is the Government Party in this country? 
     
     
      
       It is the Party that stands for order, stability and security. 
     
     
      
       It is no matter to joke about.  It is very serious. 
     
     
      
       I desire to ask the President if it is not quite clear to those who have not yet subscribed to the funds of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party that Mr. McGilligan will not refuse their subscriptions if tendered to him? 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister for Industry and Commerce refuse them? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CORK FIRE BRIGADE APPOINTMENT. 
     
      
       asked the President (a) if, in connection with the recent appointment to the post of Chief of the Fire Brigade for the County Borough of Cork, a certain candidate was recommended for appointment by the Local Appointments Commission; whether the candidate thus recommended was duly appointed; further, whether the advertisement asking for applications stated that applicants with a knowledge of Irish would be given a preference; whether the applicants were examined in Irish, and, if so, what was the result of that examination, in the case of all the candidates; (b) whether one candidate only had a knowledge of Irish; whether   any examination was made as to the proficiency of candidates in ambulance work, and, if so, what proofs of such proficiency were furnished by the successful candidate; whether the advertisement calling for applications fixed any limit as to age, and, if so, what the age of the candidate appointed was. 
     
     
      
       Yes.  A candidate was recently recommended by the Local Appointments Commissioners to the local authority for the appointment of superintendent of the Cork fire brigade, and it is understood that this candidate has been appointed to the post. The particulars of the appointment sent to all the applicants for the vacancy stated that a preference would be given to qualified candidates with a knowledge of Irish, and in assessing the qualifications of applicants due regard was had to this condition.  In fact, the preference did not operate, as the Local Appointments Commissioners satisfied themselves, with the assistance of a competent board of selection, who personally interviewed the candidates, that the man recommended for the post was the only one whose technical qualifications and experience were sufficient. Proficiency in ambulance work was taken into account in assessing their relative merits. 
       The advertisement stated that candidates must be under 40 years of age. In accordance with practice an extension of age was allowed to existing members of the Cork fire brigade.  The candidate recommended is 47 years of age, and was an existing member of the brigade. 
     
     
      
       Might I draw the President's attention to the fact that he has not answered the question I put to him relating to the proficiency of the candidate?  I asked what proof of proficiency in ambulance work had been furnished by the successful candidate. Will the President answer that question? 
       
         Mr. ANTHONY  rose. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Deputy Anthony. 
     
     
     
      
       Is the President aware that the man appointed is, from the point of view of proficiency as a fire fighter, the most capable man in the brigade?  Is he also aware that, over a considerable period of time, this man acted as driver of the ambulance van at Cork station, and proved his efficiency in that respect?  Can the President further say whether the ability to use the fire hose or a knowledge of a language is the more potent factor in extinguishing a fire, and will he also say whether a fireman, using a hose, is more effective than a man who can say Ta se fliuch with a Cork accent? 
     
     
      
       On a point of order&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The President. 
     
     
      
       On a point of personal explanation&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The President. 
     
     
      
       The man recommended for the appointment, and who has been appointed, entered on his duties on the 1st instant.  He has been attached to the Cork fire brigade for twenty years.  For ten years he has been in charge of the Fire Station at Grattan Street, Cork.  During that time he has frequently deputised for the Superintendent.  He has had practical experience of driving and working motor pump, tenders and ambulances, and in addition has a very good knowledge of buildings.  He has had considerable experience of first aid work. 
     
     
      
       First of all, I think I am entitled to protest against the unwarranted intervention of Deputy Anthony. I do not see why the ordinary rules of courtesy should be departed from, that the Deputy who puts down a question has the right to ask the first supplementary.  I was awaiting an answer.  The next point is that I wish to ask the President this question definitely: In fact had the candidate who was appointed no knowledge of Irish, was he over the age limit, and did he fail to furnish proof of proficiency in ambulance work&mdash;not in motor driving, but in ambulance work? 
     
     
     
      
       What I stated was that the man appointed had practical experience of driving and working motor pump, tenders and ambulances, and that in addition he has a very good knowledge of buildings and considerable experience of first aid work. 
     
     
      
       What proofs of proficiency did he furnish?  In this case the advertisement did not ask that a candidate should be proficient in motor driving, but it did ask that he should have a knowledge of Irish and that he should be proficient in ambulance work, which, in this case, I take it, means first aid work. 
     
     
      
       I did not mention motor driving.  What I said was that he had practical experience of driving and working the motor pump. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KILKENNY VETERINARY APPOINTMENT. 
     
      
       asked the President if he is aware that the Kilkenny County Council has deferred the appointment of the veterinary surgeon recommended by the Local Appointments Commissioners for the post of veterinary inspector for the Urlingford area; if he will state whether the recommendation was made following inquiry by a selection board appointed by the Commissioners, and whether the board had before them particulars as to the service of the person recommended, whilst inspector of cowsheds and dairies to the Callan Rural District Council from August, 1913, to August 1920. 
     
     
      
       I understand that the Kilkenny County Council have not yet appointed the candidate recommended to them by the Local Appointments Commissioners for the post of   veterinary surgeon for the Urlingford area.  In arriving at their decision to make this recommendation the Commissioners had the assistance of a competent board of selection which interviewed the candidates for the post and reported on their relative merits according to qualifications and experience. 
       Inquiry into the health and character of candidates is not a function of the selection board but of the Commissioners themselves.  In the present case the Commissioners took the usual steps to satisfy themselves as to the suitability of the candidate in these respects.  The Commissioners have had before them certain particulars as to the service of the person recommended whilst he was acting as inspector of cowsheds and dairies to the Callan Rural District Council in the period referred to in the question and they see no reason to vary the recommendation they have made for the post in the Urlingford area. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DUTY ON WINES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the quantities of wine at strengths not exceeding 30 degrees and 42 degrees respectively, on which duty was paid in the Saorstat, either ex-ship or ex-warehouse, during the period 1st April, 1927, to 31st January, 1928, and if he will also give similar information for the like periods to 31st January, 1926 and 1927. 
     
     
      
       As the answer consists of a tabular statement, I propose to circulate it in the Official Report. 
       Following is the answer:&mdash; 
       Return showing the Quantities of Wine on which Duty was paid during the periods specified. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             
             
             Not Exceeding 30 Degrees 
             Exceeding 30 and not Exceeding 42 Degrees 
             
             
           
         
         
           
             Period 
             Ex Ship 
             Ex Warehouse 
             Total 
             Ex Ship 
             Ex Warehouse 
             Total 
             Grand Total 
           
           
             
             
             Gallons 
             Gallons 
             Gallons 
             Gallons 
             Gallons 
             Gallons 
             Gallons 
           
           
             1st April, 1925, to 31st January, 1926 
             97,417 
             147,255 
             244,672 
             74,644 
             297,653 
             372,297 
             616,969 
           
           
             1st April, 1926, to 31st January 1927 
             90,257 
             169,041 
             259,298 
             49,793 
             195,646 
             245,439 
             504,737 
           
           
             1st April, 1927, to 31st January, 1928 
             69,468 
             175,761 
             245,229 
             39,463 
             200,330 
             239,793 
             485,022 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - THE AGRICULTURAL CREDIT CORPORATION. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he has yet nominated the directors of the Agricultural Credit Corporation, and, if so, whether he will state the names, occupations and annual remuneration to be paid the persons so nominated; whether the banks doing business in the Saorstat have fully subscribed the 200,000 shares offered to them for subscription; and whether he is in a position to announce when the Corporation will be prepared to receive and deal with applications for loans. 
     
     
      
       The Minister for Finance has nominated the following three Directors of The Agricultural Credit Corporation, Limited:&mdash; 
       John Patrick Colbert, Dainton House, Upper Park Road, Bromley, Kent, late managing editor, &ldquo;The Statist,&rdquo; as Chairman and Managing Director. 
       Michael Francis O'Hanlon, 37 Upper Fitzwilliam Street, Dublin (Senator and Farmer). 
       Patrick Francis Walsh, 8 Temple Villas, Palmerston Road, Dublin (Principal, Department of Agriculture). 
       The remaining four Directors have been appointed by the original members of the Corporation as follows:&mdash; 
       Patrick Francis Baxter, St. Aiden's, Cavan (Farmer). 
       Charles Hugh O'Conor, The Elms, Mount Merrion Avenue, Blackrock, County Dublin (Director, Hibernian Bank, Limited). 
       Philip O'Connell, 36 Lansdowne Road, Dublin (formerly Chief Inspector of Branches Bank of Ireland). 
       James Michael Sweetman, Longtown, Sallins, County Kildare (Director, Royal Bank of Ireland, Limited). 
       The remuneration of the Managing Director (who is a whole-time officer) is at the rate of £1,400 a year.  The remuneration of the other Directors (who are part-time) is at the rate of £300 a year. 
       The following banks have taken 200,000 shares offered to them under Section 5 (1) of the Agricultural Credit Act, 1927:&mdash; 
     
     
        Bank of Ireland; National Bank, Limited; Munster and Leinster Bank, Limited; Provincial Bank of Ireland, Limited; Hibernian Bank, Limited; Ulster Bank, Limited; Royal Bank of Ireland, Limited; and Northern Banking Company, Limited. 
     The Minister is not yet in a position to announce when the Corporation will be prepared to deal with applications for loans.  A large amount of preliminary work has to be done in the way of organising and floating the company before the certificate to commence business can be granted to the Corporation by the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies. There is, however, no reason why applications for loans should not now be sent to the Corporation at their offices, No. 2 Merrion Square, Dublin. They will be dealt with at the earliest possible opportunity. 
     
      
       Will the Minister state, having regard to the terms of the Agricultural Credit Corporation Act, dealing with the amount of capital and the issue of shares and also the appointment of directors, whether he considers there is power at this stage to constitute the whole Board? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  The Memorandum of Association was signed by seven civil servants, who each subscribed for one share, and who are the members of the company, and for the present the shareholders of the company.  They have appointed the four directors whom I have mentioned.  Within not less than one month and not more than three months after the company becomes entitled to commence business, the statutory meeting must be held&mdash;that is, the first general meeting.  At that meeting, according to the Articles of Association of the company, all these seven directors must retire.  The Minister for Finance will then appoint three directors and the shareholders of the company will elect four themselves. These seven directors are properly appointed in accordance with the Companies Act, Articles of Association of the Company and the Memorandum of the Corporation. 
     
     
      
       Could the Minister state whether he appointed any director from the province of Connaught to the   Agricultural Credit Corporation, and if not, what is the reason for not so doing? 
     
     
      
       We did not take the question of provinces into consideration at all. 
     
     
      
       Of course.  It is the old thing of &ldquo;To hell or to Connaught.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state to what address applications under the Act should be made or when he is prepared to make a general statement as to the general administration and policy of the Agricultural Credit Corporation? Statements have appeared in the Press that the Act was to be administered through the banks, while other statements have been made that it was to be administered through credit societies.  If the latter is to be the procedure, when does the Minister propose to take steps to organise these societies? 
     
     
      
       The address to which applications should be sent, as I have already said, is No. 2 Merrion Square. The Corporation will make its own announcement of policy. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say at what rate of interest these loans will be granted? 
     
     
      
       I presume at a rate fixed by the Corporation.  If the Deputy, however, is thinking of loans at 2 per cent., he is making a mistake. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that members of his own Party stated that loans would be granted at 21⁄2 per cent.? 
     
     
      
       If they did, they made a mistake. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state how much of the £200,000 share capital has been taken up by the banks named? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  Bank of Ireland, 58,700 shares; National Bank, 45,500 shares; Munster and Leinster Bank, 28,400 shares; Provincial Bank, 21,600 shares, Hibernian Bank, 14,600 shares; Ulster Bank, 14,000 shares; Royal Bank, 9,100 shares; Northern Bank, 8,100 shares. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WICKLOW CRIMINAL INJURIES DECREES. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that in connection with decrees for criminal injuries arising from political disturbance on the 15th April, 1918, the Wicklow Urban Council is in debt to the County Council for a sum of £840 10s. 6d.; whether he is aware that the Urban Council could not hope to pay the amount within a reasonable term of years; whether the County Council is not thereby helpless in regard to the recovery of the debt; and whether, in the circumstances, the Government is prepared to accept liability for the debt as a State charge. 
     
     
      
       I have been informed that the Wicklow Urban District Council is indebted to the Wicklow County Council in a sum of £840 10s. 6d. stated to have been paid by the latter's treasurer, under compulsion, on foot of three criminal injury awards properly leviable over portion of the Urban District. I am not aware that the Urban Council could not hope to pay this amount within a reasonable term of years, or that the County Council is helpless in regard to the recovery of the debt.  The Government is not prepared to accept liability for the debt as a State charge.  The injuries in respect of which the decrees were granted occurred on the 15th April, 1918, and the liability for decrees awarded in respect of criminal injuries sustained prior to the 21st January, 1919, rests upon the local authorities.  Under the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act, 1923, they were relieved of the liability for injuries sustained subsequent, but not prior to that date. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister give any proof as to the statements that the amounts were properly levied over the two wards? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Is he aware that one of the wards has been exempted? There were three defendants from this ward and this should be a national charge considering that one of the defendants rose to be a Major-General in   the Republican Army.  This was the first blow struck against the British regime in Ireland at the time. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LEITRIM COMPENSATION AWARD. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state the reasons why the Compensation (Ireland) Commission refused to sanction payment of an item of £96 to Michael Flynn, of Gortnagullion, Kishcarrigan P.O., County Leitrim, which item represented moneys stolen from him by the Black and Tans on an occasion when they raided his house, and for which amount (£96) he had obtained a decree, together with a further item of £100 for personal injuries, sustained on the same occasion, before Judge Brown in 1922. 
     
     
      
       The Compensation (Ireland) Commission ruled that Mr. Flynn's claim for money alleged to have been taken from him in the circumstances indicated by the Deputy did not come within the scope of their terms of reference. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state why an exception was made in the case of moneys taken from a private individual or if power was given to that Commission to deal with these cases in which individuals had been robbed?  Why did this treatment not apply to other institutions that suffered, such as banks? 
     
     
      
       That is a different question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - THE UNEMPLOYMENT GRANT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he can state (a) how much of the £150,000 Unemployment Grant, 1927, has been expended during the months of November and December, 1927, and the first half of January, 1928, by the Local Government Department, the Land Commission, and by other approved methods; (b) how much has been expended from the beginning of February up to the present; and how much it is proposed to expend up to the 30th April; and (c) how much it is calculated will remain unexpended on the 1st May. 
     
     
     
      
       I regret that I am not in a position to give the information the Deputy desires.  The practice, so far as expenditure on public health is concerned, is that moneys are paid in the first instance from the funds of the local authority concerned, and subsequently refunded according as certified returns of expenditure are submitted to the Department of Local Government and Public Health. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say when he will be prepared to give an answer to the question? 
     
     
      
       I could not say.  I have not looked into that. 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister say if the question were put down in a fortnight's time whether he would be prepared to give an answer? 
     
     
      
       I might or I might not.  The Deputy can put down the question if he wishes.  I have not really looked into the matter. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PENSIONS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he can state (a) the number of persons under 70 years of age who are in receipt (i) of pensions under the Military Service Pensions Acts, 1924 to 1925, and the Army Pensions Acts, 1923 to 1927; (ii) of Civil Service pensions, whether granted before or after the Treaty; (iii) of ex-R.I.C. pensions, and (b) the total number of persons under 70 years of age in receipt of pensions for which the Saorstat is liable, and the total amount of money required to pay those pensions in the coming financial year. 
     
     
      
       I am not in a position to state how many of the pensioners paid from Saorstat funds are under 70 years of age, and the ascertainment of such figures would require an expenditure of time and labour in making inquiries which, I am afraid, would be out of all proportion to the value of the information sought. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say whether the old age pensioners or pensioners who are young and able-bodied are the greater? 
     
     
     
      
       The Deputy can find the total from the estimates&mdash;the total pension charges that are payable, and he can perhaps make an estimate in regard to the number of recipients over 70. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - EVENING MAIL DELIVERIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs whether he will arrange, in the near future, to provide an evening delivery of letters in all the suburbs of Dublin, so that mails arriving at Dun Laoghaire at 5.30 p.m. will be distributed the same evening. 
     
     
      
       A general evening delivery in the Dublin suburban area of correspondence arriving at Dun Laoghaire at 5.30 p.m. could only be afforded at considerable additional expense which would not be warranted. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of that answer, is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that there is an evening delivery of letters at Dun Laoghaire and Dalkey, and is there any intention of curtailing that delivery? 
     
     
      
       I am aware that there is an evening delivery of letters at Dun Laoghaire and Dalkey and some other suburban areas, and there is no intention of curtailing these services. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TELEPHONE FACILITIES IN CO. WEXFORD. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs whether he will state for what reason a telephone call office was refused to the village of Coolgreaney, Co. Wexford; whether he is aware that it is a much larger village with more prospective users than several places already supplied with a telephone call office; and if he will reconsider his decision in this matter. 
     
     
      
       As explained in my letter of the 5th instant to the Deputy, the opening of a telephone call office at Coolgreaney would involve the erection of about two miles of new pole   route.  The cost of providing and maintaining the service would be greatly in excess of the revenue to be anticipated from a call office and as the project would involve an appreciable loss to public funds, I regret that it is not possible to proceed with it. 
       Each application for the opening of a call office is considered on its merits, due regard being given to the expense involved as against the estimated revenue; and as regards the call offices at the other places referred to by the Deputy it may be taken that the circumstances were more favourable than in the case of Coolgreaney. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary state what would be the estimated cost of wiring and other items over the two miles? 
     
     
      
       I cannot give the Deputy the details of the separate items, but I can tell him this, that the estimated cost would be £27 and the estimated annual revenue would be £7, showing a net loss to the Post Office of £20. 
     
     
      
       Seeing that the Post Office costs the ratepayers £2,000,000 a year, will the Parliamentary Secretary say that all those places on which there is a loss will be closed down&mdash;that is, all places that are not paying for their maintenance? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy's information in this particular case is as accurate as his information about the cost to the ratepayers of the working of the Post Office, I could not regard his information as reliable. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BOFFIN ISLAND CABLE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs what provision has been made to repair the cable to Boffin Island or to provide an alternative means of communication. 
     
     
      
       As stated in the reply to the Deputy's question of the 10th November last on the same subject, the repair of the submarine cable connecting Inishbofin and the mainland could only be effected by a specially equipped cable ship.  The Department has no such vessel, and the cost of chartering one would be very heavy. 
     
     
        A scheme for serving both Inishbofin and Clare Island by wireless telephony has been authorised, but its introduction is being deferred pending experience of the working of a similar undertaking between Arranmore Island (Donegal) and Burtonport on the mainland. 
     Wireless communication was established between Arranmore and Burtonport on the 10th February, and the service has so far been maintained without interruption.  Sufficient time has not, however, elapsed to enable a definite opinion to be formed as regards the reliability of radio telephone instruments of the type used, and it is essential therefore to await further experience before proceeding with the installations at Inishbofin and Clare Island. 
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that this cable was broken during the time the British were here&mdash;that it was broken in this Island of Boffin&mdash;and that they never required a specially equipped cable-ship to repair it? 
     
     
      
       That may be so, but it depends on where the cable was broken.  My information is that this cable is broken in deep water, and that to get at it we would require a specially equipped cable-ship. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MARKETS ON ST. PATRICK'S DAY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he will consider the introduction of proposals for legislation to prohibit the holding of fairs and markets on St. Patrick's Day. 
     
     
      
       No representations in this matter have been made. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WESTMEATH SENTENCE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if he will reconsider the sentence of three months hard labour imposed on Patrick Glennon, of Gaulstown, Collinstown, Westmeath, passed on him for the non-payment of a debt due to the Fore Co-operative Society. 
     
     
     
      
       Patrick Glennon was sued by the Fore and Collinstown Co-operative Society for £20 14s. 4d. in respect of seeds and manures supplied to him.  An examination order as to his means was subsequently granted to the plaintiffs and at Castlepollard District Court on 9th March, 1927, an order was issued directing him to pay the debt by instalments of ten shillings per month.  The defendant failed to comply with the order, and on 25th February, 1928, at the suit of the Society he was committed to prison for three months under the Enforcement of Court Orders Act (1926).  I cannot interfere between party and party in a civil case. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that Patrick Glennon is in a condition of extreme poverty owing to his failure in the cattle trade; that he has eleven dependents, and in view of these facts will he consider the remission of the remaining portion of the sentence? 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy had listened to my answer he would have understood the matter. I said that I cannot interfere between party and party in a civil case.  Before this order could have been made against this man in order to make him pay his debt to the Co-operative Society by instalments, the Justice must have been satisfied that he had means so to do. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GRANTS TO PUPIL TEACHERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he will state for what reason Kevin Hall and Thomas F. Whyte, who were appointed pupil teachers at the Christian Brothers' Schools, Wexford, in September, 1926, and completed their period of teaching in July, 1927, were not paid their salary in accordance with paragraph 12 of the Pupil Teachers (New) Scheme, issued by the Department of Education, which states that grants to pupil teachers shall be paid in four instalments, at the end of each quarter. 
     
     
      
       Pupil teachers (New Scheme) are appointed subject to a declaration being signed by the pupil teacher and a guarantee being   given by the parent or guardian that the pupil teacher will endeavour to qualify himself thoroughly for service as teacher in National Schools in An Saorstat. 
       Grants, not salary, at the rates set out in the regulations are made to pupil teachers whose parents or guardians have not sufficient means to pay for their secondary education. 
       The pupil teachers in question were appointed exceptionally for a one year's course, and no application for a grant was received from or on their behalf during the year for which they were appointed.  At the end of the year, although they passed the Leaving Certificate examination, they did not enter a training college for teachers, and thus they failed to carry out their undertakings. 
       In these circumstances it has not been possible to consider the question of the award to them of the grant provided for in the regulations. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SALARIES OF DISMISSED TEACHERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether he is prepared to pay to those National teachers who were dismissed from the service a few years ago, and whose reappointment the Minister recently stated, he is prepared to sanction, the salary actually earned by such of them as continued to teach after sanction had been withdrawn, and whose work was inspected, and presumably passed, by the inspectors of National Schools. 
     
     
      
       It is not proposed to pay the teachers referred to in the question for the periods during which their service was not recognised. 
     
     
      
       Ba mhaith liom an cheist sin do phleidhe ar an ath-lo. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RAILWAY FREIGHT ON BACON. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that the carriage per ton of bacon from Roscrea to London is far in excess of the charge from Limerick to London, though the distance   from Roscrea to London is shorter, and that the carriage from Roscrea to Dublin equals the carriage from Dublin to London; and that representation to the railway company has failed to bring about any satisfactory result. 
     
     
      
       Railway rates on bacon from Limerick to London are less than those from Roscrea to London, although the distance is greater, for the reason that the railway company has to meet the competition of the sea route from Limerick, while Roscrea is an inland station. 
       I am informed that the rates from Roscrea to Dublin are not the same, but, in fact, substantially less than the rates from Dublin to London.  I am further informed that the Great Southern Railways Company have recently offered special reduced rates for the carriage of bacon from Roscrea to Dublin. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLAIMS TO UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state why unemployment benefit has been refused to William Neill (Book No. 999, Killinure, Tullow). 
     
     
      
       William Neill, Killinure, Tullow (Unemployment Insurance Book No. Tullow/999) made a claim to unemployment insurance benefit on the 1st of February, 1928. 
       His claim was disallowed by the Insurance Officer under Section 7 (I) (ii) and 7 (I) (iii) of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, on the ground that he was &ldquo;not unemployed&rdquo; and &ldquo;not unable to obtain suitable employment.&rdquo; He was notified of the disallowance and of his statutory right of appeal to a Court of Referees, on the 22nd ultimo, but up to the present he has not appealed. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state why unemployment benefit has been refused to John Murphy, Seskin, Tinahely, County Wicklow (Book No. 1083, Tullow). 
     
     
     
      
       John Murphy, Seskin, Tinahely, County Wicklow (Unemployment Insurance Book No. Tullow/ 1083), made a claim to unemployment insurance benefit on the 16th of January, 1928. 
       His claim was disallowed by the Insurance Officer under Sections 7 (I) (ii) and 7 (I) (iii) of the Unemployment Act, 1920, on the ground that he was &ldquo;not unemployed&rdquo; and &ldquo;not unable to obtain suitable employment.&rdquo;  He was notified of the disallowance and of his right of appeal to a Court of Referees within twenty-one days from the date of receipt of notification of the disallowance, but he did not exercise that right.  In the circumstances benefit is not payable on the claim. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of the Parliamentary Secretary's answer, is he aware that these men are not benefited under Section 7&mdash;that because they have a few acres of land they are not entitled to a donation?  They would never be entitled to a donation, and in view of that will the Parliamentary Secretary consider refunding to this man the amount of the contributions that have been taken from him? 
     
     
      
       Each case, as the Deputy is aware, is investigated on its merits.  The law is quite clear.  It would be impossible to make a refund. 
     
     
      
       The Exchange always decides where a man has a few acres of land, notwithstanding what the valuation may be, that he is not entitled to draw any benefit while unemployed, the excuse being that while unemployed he can work on the land. In that and similar cases will the contributions paid by these men be refunded, or otherwise not deduct contributions from them when they are employed? 
     
     
      
       No, the Deputy is not quite right in that.  Each case is tried on its merits. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ALLEGED SEIZURE OF FILMS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for External Affairs if he is aware that a package of films, dealing with the tenth anniversary of the Union of Soviet Socialist   Republics of Russia, consigned from Russia to Mr. James Larkin, Dublin, was seized in transit at Harwich, examined and detained by British Customs Authorities, and, if so, whether he will make representations to the British Government in the matter. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that a package of films imported with Mr. Larkin's luggage was detained at Harwich on the instructions of the British Home Secretary, and has been released for delivery.  I do not propose to make representations to the British Government. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister consider this action compatible with the powers of the Saorstat as regards Customs facilities? 
     
     
      
       Quite.  If the transit were the other way and if our police had the same suspicion that was apparently entertained on the other side with regard to the luggage, our police would open the luggage even though it was British packages sent to Russia or Russian packages sent to Britain. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say to which James Larkin were the films consigned? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TIME-EXPIRED NATIONAL ARMY MEN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that time-expired men of the National Army are being discharged without any gratuity or allowance; whether he is aware that those men had been informed that on discharge they would receive three weeks' pay and ration allowance; and if he will have the matter investigated with a view to removing the cause for complaint. 
     
     
      
       No gratuity or allowance is payable to N.C.O.'s or men on discharge, and no N.C.O. or man was informed that he would receive three weeks' pay and ration allowance on discharge. 
     
     A regulation came into force on the 10th ultimo providing that as from that date N.C.O.'s and men proceeding on   discharge or on transfer to the Reserve would receive leave with pay and allowances other than additional pay for the last 14 or 21 days of the term of their enlistment. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WEXFORD PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence why payment of a pension was refused to Michael Kirwan (No. 41243), Gibson Street, Wexford. 
     
     
      
       No application under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, has been received from Mr. Kirwan, and such an application cannot now be considered.  His application under the Army Pensions Act, 1923, was disallowed on the ground that there is no evidence to show that he is suffering from any disability attributable to service with the forces. 
     
     
      
       In view of the fact that this man is in a position to submit independent medical evidence, would the Minister have the case re-opened? 
     
     
      
       Not under the 1923 Act. 
     
     
      
       Is there any Act under which his claim could be considered now? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       You are not the Minister yet. 
     
     
      
       I do not think so, unless under the 1927 Act. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - HOUSING SCHEMES FOR RURAL WORKERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state at what date he would finance the Labourers Act, 1906, with a view to facilitating county boards of health in putting further housing schemes for rural workers under that Act into operation. 
     
     
      
       The whole question of further legislation in the matter of housing is at present under consideration. It involves the application of   the Local Loans Fund.  There will be no avoidable delay in coming to decisions. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MEDICAL AND EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state the amount of grants to local authorities in the area now comprising the Saorstat in 1902, under the Local Government Act, 1898, for recoupment of one-half the expenditure upon medical and educational expenditure in Poor Law Unions, and of salaries of sanitary officers; and, if he will state the total expenditure under the above-mentioned headings in the year 1927. 
     
     
      
       As regards the first part of the question the amounts payable were £66,439, 2s. 6d. and £14,075 11s. 6d. respectively.  As regards the latter part of the question the expenditure on corresponding services for the year ended 30th September, 1927, was £245,601 and £42,354 respectively. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BALLINSKELLIGS ABBEY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he is aware that no action has yet been taken to protect the graveyard known as Ballinskelligs Abbey, County Kerry, from the inroads of the sea, with the result that bodies are being constantly washed away by the tide; and whether he will take steps to terminate this neglect of sacred ground. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to my reply of the 10th November last in this matter.  Inquiry is being made from the Board of Health as to the action they are taking in regard to it. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CARRIGALINE DISPENSARY VACANCY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he is aware that sanction has not yet been given to the proposal of the South Cork Board of   Assistance to appoint Dr. E.F. Nyhan, Johnstown, County Cork, to the vacant dispensary district of Carrigaline, and if he will state why sanction has not been given to the proposal to transfer Dr. Nyhan from one Board of Assistance area to another. 
     
     
      
       In the case of this vacancy the South Cork Board of Public Assistance notified each medical officer in their employment of the existence of the vacancy but no applications were received.  The Board, however, have proposed to appoint Doctor Nyhan, a dispensary doctor in the employment of the West Cork Board of Public Assistance.  The Board were informed by the Department on the 17th February that the most suitable method of filling the vacancy was under Section 6 of the Local Authorities (Officers and Employees) Act, 1926, by requesting the Local Appointments Commission concerned to recommend a person for the appointment. 
       In the circumstances I have been unable to sanction the making of the appointment under Section 5 of the Local Authorities (Officers and Employees) Act, 1926.  Lest misapprehension should arise I might add that no unfavourable view is held as to either the suitability or professional attainments of Doctor Nyhan.  Where existing medical officers of a Board of Health do not apply for appointment to a vacancy it appears clear that the appropriate procedure is that provided under Section 6 of the Act which affords opportunity to eligible candidates generally. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ERECTION OF PIER (COUNTY GALWAY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he is prepared to take any steps to have a pier erected at Aille, Knock, County Galway, in order to facilitate the fishermen of South Connemara. 
     
     
      
       I do not appear to have received any representations asking for the erection of a pier at Aille, Knock, County Galway.  I am having inquiries made as to the amount of fishing done   at Aille and the extent of the accommodation afforded there. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PIER AT VALENCIA HARBOUR. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries what is the cause of the delay in commencing the erection of a pier at Valencia Harbour, County Kerry; and whether, in view of the need of a pier, and the unemployment existing in this district, he will take steps to put this project into immediate operation. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to the reply which I made on the 22nd ultimo to a question on this subject which was addressed to me by Deputy James Crowley.  The engineers have not yet completed their investigations. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MONARCHAIN BRATACH URLAR. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Iascaigh ar tugadh fios don Aire go bhfuil tri monarchain bratach urlar druidte i lar Gaedhealtachta Thir Chonaill, ag Ath na Groighe, ag Cro-Shlighe agus ag Cill Chartha; go dtug na monarchain seo saothrughadh do chuig cead cailini; go bhfuil na cailini seo ag imtheacht go tiorthai coimhtheacha anois; agus an bhfuil run ag an Aire feidhm ar bith a bhaint as tighthe na monarchan so le slighe bheatha thabhairt do mhuinntir na Gaedhealtachta sa bhaile. 
     
     
      
       Nil fem churam-sa ach dha cheann de sna tri monarchain da dtagartar.  Tathar tar eis fogra do sheirbheail ar leasuithe na monarchan so ag cur deire le na dtionontuiocht.  Cho luath agus a bheidh seilbh fachta ag an Roinn cuirfear fiosruchain ar bun maidir leis an sli is fearr chun na foirginti d'usaid i dtreo go mbeadh obair le fail sa cheanntar ina bhfuilid suidhte. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BOG ROAD TO COOLMOUNTAIN (COUNTY CORK). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries (a) whether a proposed bog road at Tullagh, Coolmountain, County Cork, was inspected by an Inspector of the Land Commission,   who stated the work could not be carried out because the Land Commission was precluded from spending any money out of the Relief Grant on estates purchased prior to 1903; whether this statement was in accordance with fact; and whether any such instructions were issued; (b) whether he is aware that on representations being made that no reasonable ground for rejecting the proposal had been shown, a further report of another Land Commission Inspector was quoted, stating that the road was intended to accommodate one tenant, ignoring the fact that it was intended to open up a bog for which there is great local need, and that practically every local labourer is unemployed; if he will state the date on which the latter inspector saw the road in question, and what report he submitted as a result of his inspection. 
     
     
      
       This work was excluded from the Cork relief scheme because it only served one farmer whose Poor Law valuation is £42.  It would, in addition, to providing a better road to this man's house, also lead to the development of an area of 50 acres of turbary in his possession. 
       In the opinion of the Land Commission works of much greater necessity have been selected. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - RELIEF WORKS AT CAPE CLEAR. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries what action has been taken by the Land Commission on proposals submitted for relief works by Rev. Fr. O'Donovan, C.C., on behalf of Cape Clear, County Cork; if he will state the date of the Inspector's visit to the island, and the nature of his report on the proposed work; whether, in view of the fact that great poverty prevails on the island, which forms portion of the area known as the &ldquo;Gaeltacht,&rdquo; he will state what action is proposed, or what action has in fact been taken. 
     
     
      
       The application for the expenditure of portion of the Relief Scheme Vote in the districts mentioned was not received until the major portion   of the money available for expenditure on works in West Cork had been fully allocated.  The small sum unallocated at that time was later devoted to works in Dunmanway, Rosscarbery and Union Hall districts, where pressing representations had been made of the urgent need for the relief of distress. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary consider the matter on another occasion? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BOG ROAD AT DROMAHAIR. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that on the sale of the Lane Fox Estate, Manor, Dromahair, Co. Leitrim (1901), a plot of bog on the holding of Henry Hamilton, Tullynascreena (Folio No. 2193), was reserved for the future accommodation of tenant purchasers on the estate; that the said plot of bog, containing 68 acres, 2 roods, 33 perches, has now been distributed among these tenants; that a road leading to this bog was begun by the Land Commissioners some time ago and left unfinished; that on this account 100 tenants, who are dependent on this bog for their turbary supply, are seriously inconvenienced; and if steps will be taken to extend this road so as to enable these tenants to secure a turbary supply for their homes from that bog. 
     
     
      
       The holding referred to comprises 325 acres, 1 rood, 10 perches of the lands of Greaghnefarna and 69 acres, 2 roods, 35 perches of the lands of Tullynascreena.  In the agreement entered into by the tenant with his landlord, J.T.R. Lane Fox, for the purchase thereof, it was provided that the holding was to be vested in the tenant, subject to, inter alia, the reservation to the vendor, his heirs and assigns of turbary upon the lands of Tullynascreena, and on 15th July, 1901, the holding was vested in the tenant, subject to this reservation. 
       I may mention that the division of the bog referred to was not carried out by the Land Commission. 
     
     As regards the bog road referred to, approximately £970 was spent on the   construction of this road in 1925-26 out of the Relief Votes.  Out of the present Relief Vote a sum of £60 has been spent to complete the road from the county road to the beginning of the bog road. 
     
       Mr. MAGUIRE  rose. 
     
      
       No further supplementaries now. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - A TIPPERARY ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if it is the intention of the Irish Land Commission to acquire and distribute the estate of J.C. Darby, Leap Castle, Roscrea, for the relief of congestion in the neighbourhood. 
     
     
      
       A proposal to purchase untenanted lands on the J.C. Darby estate has recently been accepted by the vendor. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - VESTING OF LAND UNDER LAND ACTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state (a) the total amount of land in the Free State vested in the owners under each Land Act passed by the British Parliament or the Oireachtas; (b) the amount not vested; (c) the total amount acquired by the Land Commission for distribution; (d) the amount still to be dealt with; and (e) the amount not covered by any Land Act. 
     
     
      
       A return giving the information asked for is being prepared and will be circulated to the Deputy in due course. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TOTTENHAM ESTATE, CO. SLIGO. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether the Land Commission decided, in the year 1924, to acquire for the purpose of sub-division, the lands known at the Tottenham Estate, County Sligo; if he will state the reason for the delay, and if the sub-division will now take place. 
     
     
      
       This estate in County Sligo comprises only tenanted lands of which particulars have been lodged, and which will be dealt with in due course in order of priority. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - A CO. SLIGO ROAD. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries why the work begun in September last on the Carrigans and Carrickbanagher Road, on the Gore-Booth and Farrell estates, County Sligo, was discontinued; if he will state the reason for the delay in restarting the work, and if it is now intended to complete this road. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Deputy will be good enough to repeat the question on this day week.  Unfortunately, there has been delay in getting the information from the local inspector. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - APPLICATION FOR HOUSE AND LAND. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if the Land Commission has received an application from Thomas Stafford, Coola, Barntown, County Wexford, for the Farmyard House, with ten acres of land on the Belmont estate, and, if so, whether he will state if the request is receiving favourable consideration. 
     
     
      
       Thomas Stafford's application for land on the estate of Patrick Rath at Belmont has been considered with those of other applicants, but the Land Commission have been unable to see their way to allot him a parcel of land. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO. KERRY QUARRIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries (a) who are the present owners of the Tureenamult Limestone Quarries, situated in Gneeveguilla, Rathmore, Kerry; (b) if the present Trustees are subject to the control of the Irish Land Commission, and (c) what amount of money is now held over for the working of these quarries. 
     
     
      
       (a)  On the occasion of the sale of the Kenmare estates under the Land Purchase Acts the vendor conveyed the limestone quarry at Tureenamult to the following persons in trust for the benefit of the tenant purchasers:&mdash; 
       Cornelius Moynihan of Leamyglissane; 
       Edward Buckley of Knockacopple, Rathmore; 
     
     
        Daniel Cooper of Knockmanagh; 
     James M. Fleming, Inch, Kilcummin; 
     John M. Crowley of Gortaeordeen, Headford; 
     Daniel M. O'Connor of Shinnagh, Rathmore. 
     It is understood that Cornelius Moynihan resigned in 1924.  The power of appointing new Trustees is vested in the surviving or Continuing Trustees or Trustee but no person may be appointed a Trustee who is not an owner of land on what was formerly an estate of the Earl of Kenmare.  The Deed of Trust is dated the 10th July, 1917, and the Land Commission have no information as to who may be the present Trustees. 
     (b)  The Trustees are not subject to the control of the Land Commission save that the Trusts may not be revoked or altered without their consent. 
     (c)  At or prior to the execution of the Deed of Trust referred to the vendor paid to the Trustees a sum of £1,150 in trust to invest same in any authorised stock funds or securities and to apply the dividends and income arising from such investments or such portions of the £1,150 as they may think proper in defraying the costs and expenses incidental to the execution of the Trusts. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BOG ROADS ON KENMARE ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries when he intends carrying out the construction of bog roads on the Kenmare Estate&mdash;the construction of which was agreed upon between the tenants and the landlord previous to the purchase of the said estate. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are not aware of any bog roads on any of the Kenmare Estates which were sold under the Land Purchase Acts, awaiting construction under agreement made between the tenants and the landlord previous to the purchase of the estate.  All requirements of the Land Commission in respect of the repair or construction of bog roads on these estates have been complied with,   and any moneys lodged with them by the vendor for this purpose have been expended. 
     
     
      
       If I supply particulars of at least twenty roads that the landlord agreed to construct for the tenants, will he have the cases investigated? 
     
     
      
       I have no information about it.  The only thing I do know quite definitely is that the money allocated for improvements on this estate was spent long ago. 
     
   
   
     QUESTION ON ADJOURNMENT. 
     
     
      
       I should like to get an opportunity to raise the subject of Question 27 on the adjournment. As Deputy Fahy has given notice to raise some other matter this evening to-morrow will suit me. 
     
     
      
       Notice has already been given by the Deputy who asked the question that matters arising out of Question 17 will be raised on the adjournment this evening. 
     
     
      
       I will not press the matter now. 
     
   
   
     BUSINESS OF DAIL. 
     
      
       We propose to take Items Nos. 1, 10 and 7 on the Order Paper in that order to-day, and then the Vote on Account. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of that, since we are going to discuss No. 10 on the Order Paper, will it not be necessary to have an opportunity of considering the Report of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges which relates to this matter?  I understood that it was with the idea of helping the Dail that the matter was referred to the Committee, and if the Report of the Committee is to be helpful to the Dail ought we not to have an opportunity of considering it in a formal way?  The terms of reference of the Committee are that such and such matters be referred for inquiry and report to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges.  We have now the report and I submit that before taking No. 10 on the Order Paper we ought to consider the report of the Committee which relates to this matter. 
     
     
      
       It is not impossible to understand the report even if one reads it quickly. 
     
     
      
       The point is this: the Committee was asked to report to the Dail.  The Dail still has the option of accepting or rejecting that report, and I think that before we proceed to No. 10 on the Order Paper we ought to be given the option of accepting or   rejecting this report&mdash;of hearing the case for and against the report&mdash;and there is a very strong case against it. 
     
     
      
       Let us hear it&mdash; I suppose we are bound to hear it. 
     
     
      
       I can only let you hear it with the permission of the Ceann Comhairle, but I am perfectly willing. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy's suggestion is that there should be a formal motion moved and brought to a conclusion with regard to the report of the Committee before the proceedings on the motion and amendment on the Order Paper (No. 10) are continued.  What kind of motion does the Deputy contemplate should be moved with regard to the report of the Committee? 
     
     
      
       In the ordinary form&mdash;that the Dail agrees with the report of the Committee or disagrees with it.  I take it the motion which would be moved from the Government Benches would be, that the Dail agree with the Report.  It is up to us to give reasons why it should not. 
     
     
      
       If that motion were moved and carried in either form it would still leave No. 10 on the Order Paper to be decided. 
     
     
      
       Yes, but then we would be in a position, I submit, to take this Report for what it is worth. It might after discussion be worth very little. 
     
     
      
       We would be in no better position.  A decision of the House accepting or rejecting the Report would not be coercive in regard to the decision the House would make upon No. 10&mdash;the motion and the amendment on the Order Paper.  If the Deputy is desirous of discussing the Report, it appears to me that the Report is relevant to the debate on the motion and the amendment and may be discussed.  The proceedings on the motion and the amendment were interrupted for the reference of certain matters to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges and the Committee has now reported.  The   Report of the Committee and the minutes of evidence are in the hands of Deputies, and it seems to me they are quite relevant to a debate on the motion and the amendment.  Therefore, a discussion of the Report is in order&mdash; that is what the Deputy is asking me&mdash; on the debate which will be resumed on Deputy de Valera's amendment to the motion in the name of the Parliamentary Secretary to the President. 
     
     
      
       I submit that is not so.  The Report concerns itself entirely with a matter of fact.  In the motion a question of law as well as a question of fact is involved.  The Committee's findings in regard to the fact may be wrong or may be right, but it will not affect the question of law. At any rate, I submit what we have to consider first is, whether the Committee's findings on this matter of fact are correct or not.  When we have found that, then at least we will have one feature of No. 10 on the Order Paper clarified.  If the Dail were to reject this Report, as I feel that it will do as soon as it has an opportunity of hearing how this Report was arrived at, without hearing witnesses&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must keep to the point of procedure first. 
     
     
      
       If the Dail rejects this Report and decides that, in fact, it has not been founded upon evidence which would be legally conclusive, then the action of the Dail will be made very much easier in regard to No. 10, and we will be able to proceed with much greater security. 
     
     
      
       As one who was not a member of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges, and who has already spoken on the motion, and consequently would not be in order in speaking again, I should like to have an opportunity of saying something on the Report which has been circulated, but apparently I would not be in order in doing so.  In order to enable Deputies similarly situated to discuss the Report, will it not be possible to enable the debate upon the motion and the amendment to start afresh? 
     
     
     
      
       This matter was referred to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges for the purpose of having a certain matter clarified.  If permission is refused to discuss this Report, then we are to take it that the Report is automatically accepted by the House.  That to my mind is unfair. We should first of all ascertain whether this matter, which we referred to the Committee, has been clarified to the satisfaction of Deputies, and that can only be done by a discussion on a motion in reference to the Report. 
     
     
      
       I shall only answer the question which have been put to me from the point of view of order.  Deputy MacEntee began his statement by saying, &ldquo;That is not so.&rdquo; I am not quite clear as to what is not so.  It certainly is the case that Deputies who desire to speak on the motion or the amendment may refer to the Report. There is no doubt about that. Deputy Lemass raises a different point, which is, that Deputies who have already spoken on the motion will not have an opportunity to speak again. That is so.  I am not in a position to remedy that.  What actually is on the Order Paper is No. 10.  It is not in my power to prevent No. 10 coming on. If it does come on, it will be in order for Deputies who have the right to speak to refer to the Report of the Committee.  That is the position of the Chair in the matter.  If a motion were on the Paper dealing with the Report, that motion would also be in order. but I could not compel that motion to be taken now, for example, even if it were on the Paper. 
     
     
      
       May I just put my point again?  Since this motion and amendment were discussed something has happened.  The Committee has met and submitted a report on a question of fact relating to the motion and amendment, and a number of us feel that the procedure adopted by the Committee in order to arrive at its conclusion was not correct and we would like to voice our views upon that subject.  Apparently we will not be allowed to do so.  Therefore, I think equity would be served and the interests of the Dail would be served by permitting Deputies who have   already spoken upon the amendment to speak again, even if they are compelled to confine their remarks to the matter of the report. 
     
     
      
       May I remind you, A Chinn Comhairle, that when discussing this very point you said that it would be a matter that could be decided by the House.  What did you then mean? 
     
     
      
       What was to be decided by the House? 
     
     
      
       On the question as to whether Deputies could speak again upon this matter, I raised that point twice in the Committee and you said that it was a matter for the House to decide. 
     
     
      
       I have no recollection of that. 
     
     
      
       Am I to understand that a Committee of the House is to be put on trial or is it the intention to talk the House to death? 
     
     
      
       The point I urge is this: Certain Deputies have spoken on the motion and the amendment.  In order to satisfy some of the points that were put up, two questions were referred to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges.  Now I have no objection whatever to having a pretty elaborate discussion on the Report of the Committee, but I do object to having it both ways in a matter of this kind.  If the only object is delay, I am against giving any facilities in this connection, absolutely, and I am satisfied that no case is made for having this delay.  If there be a case for anything else, I certainly should like to hear it, but I have not heard it. 
     
     
      
       The case is this: A committee met to decide whether Mr. James Larkin, who was the candidate for Dublin North, was the same person as an individual who had been declared to be bankrupt.  They did not consult James Larkin.  They did not consult his proposer or seconder or call as witnesses any of the persons whose names were on his nomination paper. We think that instead of going the round-about way they did to arrive at a conclusion, they should have gone straight to the very people who could   have given the information.  The fact that they did not do so is a grave reflection on the Committee. 
     
     
      
       It is a grave reflection on the members of the party opposite, who were members of the Committee, who did not put that point of view correctly and at the proper time.  We cannot remedy all their infirmities. 
     
     
      
       It is quite certain that Mr. James Larkin would recognise the court? 
     
     
      
       That has nothing to do with us. 
     
     
      
       The President states that a Committee was set up to investigate certain points raised by Deputies who spoke previously.  Are these Deputies now to be refused an opportunity of giving their views as to whether the report really represents the points that were raised or not? 
     
     
      
       May I put it as clearly and as easily as I can so that the Deputy can understand.  Certain points were raised here.  In order to afford further facilities for the exploration of these points we sent this matter to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges. Deputies who have already spoken have said all they can say upon that point.  We cannot afford&mdash;we do not live long enough&mdash;to have the same thing gone over from morning to night, week after week, and year after year. 
     
     
      
       The Deputies who made these points which the Committee have to consider are now to be denied an opportunity of stating whether the report represents the views they put forward. 
     
     
      
       Having found that those Deputies would not hear any side other than their own side of the case&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       There is no use in wrangling over this matter. The question of order involved is a very simple one.  There is a motion on the paper in the name of the Parliamentary Secretary to the President.  It may be taken now or at any other time fixed by the President in the time prescribed   by the Standing Orders for Government business.  When that motion is being discussed it will be subject to the ordinary rules of Order.  If a Deputy wants to make a second speech he can do so only by the leave of the Chair and by the leave of the House.  Some questions have been addressed to the Chair which it would not be proper for the Chair to solve.  If it is desired to have a discussion on the report of the Committee, that could be done on a motion which could be tabled, but the motion could not be taken in Government time without the consent of the President. Perhaps it therefore means that so far as this motion is concerned the matter could not be satisfactorily discussed in time.  A comparatively small number of Deputies have spoken, and a good many retain the right to speak when the debate is resumed, and I certainly see no objection to allowing the mover of the amendment, who is Leader of the Opposition, to make a second statement in the light of the Committee's report. But I would be rather unfavourable, if I may say so, to the proposal that the eleven Deputies who have already spoken should be allowed to make a second statement.  If I were asked for a suggestion, it would be that a second statement might be made by the mover of the amendment, who is Leader of the Opposition, and who has already spoken, the Leader of the Labour Party, who has already spoken, and a Minister, for the purpose of putting the points of view of groups of people known to exist.  The contention of the Deputy that the right would exist on the resumption of the debate for all who had spoken to speak again would be rather an unusual procedure.  I would prefer the course I have suggested. 
     
     
      
       Then I am quite satisfied. 
     
     
      
       I have no objection. 
     
     
      
       Will Deputy MacEntee be allowed to speak again? 
     
     
      
       He has not already spoken. 
     
     
     
      
       The Minister for Agriculture spoke too much on one occasion in which he said his party were responsible for a certain incident. 
     
   
   
     REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF SELECTION. 
     
      
       reported that the Committee of Selection had appointed Deputy Thrift to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges in place of Deputy O'Hanlon, who has resigned. 
       Ordered: That the Report lie on the Table. 
     
   
   
     ISSUE OF WRIT&mdash;NORTH DUBLIN CONSTITUENCY. - DEBATE RESUMED. 
     &ldquo;Go n-ordoidh an Ceann Comhairle do Chleireach na Dala a Rit do thabhairt amach chun ball do thogha chun an fholuntais ata I nDailcheanntar Bhuirge Bhaile Atha Cliath Thuaidh, foluntas a tharla toise nar toghadh ach seachtar in ionad ochtair chun an Dailcheanntar san d'ionadu i nDail Eireann ag an Toghachan Generalta a comoradh ar an 15adh la de Mhean Fhomhair. 1927.&rdquo; 
     &ldquo;That the Ceann Comhairle direct the Clerk of the Dail to issue his Writ for the election of a member to fill the vacancy which exists in the Borough Constituency of Dublin North, caused by the fact that only seven persons instead of eight were elected to represent that Constituency in Dail Eireann at the General Election held on the 15th day of September, 1927.&rdquo;  (Runai Pairliminte don Uachtaran.) 
     Amendment. 
     To delete all the words after the word &ldquo;That&rdquo; and substitute therefor the following words:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;inasmuch as eight candidates were duly declared to be elected by the Returning Officer of the Borough Constituency of Dublin North and the names of the eight   candidates so selected were duly returned by the Returning Officer to the Clerk of the Dail in accordance with Section 27, sub-section (1) of the Electoral Act, 1923, the motion for the issuance of a Writ for the election of a Member for the Borough Constituency of Dublin North be postponed until such time as a certificate of a competent Court is received by the Clerk of the Dail declaring that in fact a vacancy does exist in the Borough Constituency of Dublin North.&rdquo;&mdash;(Eamon de Valera.) 
     
      
       The debate is to be resumed on the amendment. I call upon Deputy Davin. 
     
     
      
       I am prepared to wait and see. 
     
     
      
       I am calling on the Deputy, as it was he who moved the adjournment of the debate on the last occasion. 
     
     
      
       I think it is correct to say that it was the Minister for Industry and Commerce who moved the adjournment of the debate. 
     
     
      
       I thought he had concluded his speech. As a matter of accuracy, after the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Deputy Cooney spoke; after Deputy Cooney had spoken some discussion took place with regard to the appointment of this Committee, and my recollection was that Deputy Davin said he would move the adjournment of the debate for the purpose of allowing the matter to be further discussed about the Committee.  It is a matter of no importance. 
     
     
      
       Is there any danger that Deputy Davin who moved the adjournment of the debate is not the same Deputy Davin&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I was one member of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges which discussed this question as to the identity of the particular candidate for this constituency, and at the end of it all, after wrangling in and out and round about, I felt myself   in the position of the gondolier, &ldquo;Which was which, I could not make out, despite my best endeavour,&rdquo; and though that may have been my attitude, I am perfectly certain that it was not the attitude of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges, because what struck me was that the majority of that Committee were not concerned with finding out whether in fact a certain James Larkin, described as of Unity Hall, 31 Marlborough Street, in the City of Dublin, and returned by the Returning Officer for the Borough Constituency of Dublin North, one of the eight persons returned to serve in the Dail, was one and the same person as the James Larkin who was adjudicated a bankrupt. 
     
     The Dail has had the opportunity.  I am sure, of reading the Report of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges. You will find that only one witness was examined, and that witness not the person who was most particularly concerned with the matter.  They examined the Returning Officer, and the Returning Officer admitted that he had a conversation with a certain Mr. James Larkin some days before the day of the nomination, and that that Mr. Larkin acknowledged he was a bankrupt, but the Returning Officer admitted also in reply to a question that it was quite possible that Mr. Larkin, after considering the conversation which he had with the Returning Officer, might have decided that he would not be a candidate in this election.  That is one of the possibilities that the Committee altogether ignored.  The second was this, that though Mr. Sherlock compelled the person who handed in the nomination paper of a certain James Larkin to extend the description of the candidate by describing him as General Secretary of the Workers' Union of Ireland, the Returning Officer was not in a position to state definitely that to his certain knowledge, on the day on which that nomination paper was handed in and on the day of the election the James Larkin who was the General Secretary of the Workers' Union of Ireland was the James Larkin who was a bankrupt.  Now you have seen, if you have read the Report, that one or two papers or exhibits were reproduced there.  There is one signed   by&mdash;at least I am told, it was not proven&mdash;there is one supposed to be signed by J. Larkin, Junr.  It might be John Larkin, Joseph Larkin, Jeremiah Larkin or Jerome, but we are told it was signed by James Larkin, Junr., and the actual signature in fact is J. Larkin.  No member of the Committee was anxious to bring the person who wrote this letter before them and ask him whether in fact his name was John, Joseph, or James Larkin.  So anxious were they&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       That you did not propose to summon anybody. 
     
     
      
       I will deal with that point in a moment.  I am not going to overlook it.  The next point was that though we have two exhibits reproduced here, the third, which I regard as the most significant one, has not been reproduced for the information of this Dail.  There was brought before the Committee of Procedure and Privileges a poster and on that election poster there were three photographs. In the bottom left-hand corner there appeared a photograph with the letterpress underneath:&mdash;James Larkin, Jr. In the top center of the poster there appeared a photograph described as James Larkin, Senior, and in the bottom right-hand corner there appeared another one which we suppose was John Lawlor. At the bottom of this particular election poster the people were asked to vote for James Larkin, Junior, for County Dublin, and for James Larkin, without any appendix as to whether he he was Senior or Junior, for North Dublin.  He might have been, as a matter of fact, the patriarch of a family and been James Larkin natu maximums.  We find at any rate that this particular James Larkin was neither described as James Larkin Junior nor as James Larkin, Senior, and in fact, so far as the Committee were aware, on the evidence produced before them, he might not have been any relative whatsoever to the James Larkin Junior or Senior, whose photograph appeared on this particular election poster. 
     
     I submit that is a very important point because you have got to refer back to the conversation which took place   between the Returning Officer and James Larkin, Senior.  It is quite evident that as a result of that conversation Mr. Larkin, Senior, could have gathered&mdash;he would have been a fool if he did not and whatever you might say about James Larkin, Senior, you cannot describe him as a fool&mdash;that if he were in fact the candidate in this election he was open to be the respondent in an election petition and that because, as he admitted himself, he was an undischarged bankrupt he would certainly lose his seat. 
     Now here is the position.  Here you have a man who is likely to lose his seat, knows he will lose his seat, if any person proceeds against him.  Yet, he is anxious that some member of his Party should stand in this election and what is more likely than that he should have recourse to an old electioneering trick, here in County Dublin and in Dublin, of getting another person of his name to be nominated.  The members of this House will remember the time when there were as many as 22 O'Kelly's nominated for a Ward in the City of Dublin.  It is quite possible another James Larkin might have been and probably was made General Secretary of the Workers' Union of Ireland between the date of the conversation with Mr. Sherlock and the date of his nomination. 
     It is a possibility that I think is an extreme probability, considering the circumstances in the case.  Did the Committee on Procedure and Privileges take any steps to investigate that possibility? It was put before them; they had a very solemn duty to discharge, and I suggest they ought to have done as they were asked to do, summon James Larkin, Senior, and James Larkin, Junior, interrogate them, and, if they refused to answer, then produce the proposer and seconder of the James Larkin who stood as a candidate in this election.  What did the Committee do? It was suggested that we should move in the matter.  It was suggested that I should propose a motion.  I, quite properly, refused because I was not there to prove this case.  The case had to be proven to me, and the onus in this matter rested upon those who were the prime movers in it. 
     
     
      
       You were there to answer questions. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will get an opportunity of speaking later. 
     
     
      
       I was not there, I repeat, to prove this case.  I was there as a member of the Committee to investigate it, if you wish.  I stated I was not satisfied.  My colleagues stated that they were not satisfied, and they put the onus, as they were entitled to do, directly upon those who were the principal movers in this matter, and said to them, &ldquo;summon these witnesses, and, when you summon them, so far as the question of fact is concerned, we will abide by the result of that investigation.&rdquo;  I think that was a perfectly fair attitude to adopt in this matter.  When this matter was being discussed&mdash;the question of sending for the witnesses&mdash;Deputy O'Sullivan proposed a motion.  Before the motion was seconded, Deputy Little intervened and asked&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       On a point of order.  Do motions in Committee require a seconder? 
     
     
      
       This particular motion, in fact, was seconded by Deputy Duggan. 
     
     
      
       It did not need to be. 
     
     
      
       I know, but, at any rate, it was.  However, before the motion was handed in in writing, Deputy Little raised the point: would we, before the motion was taken, be permitted to raise this question of sending for the essential witnesses again? As Deputy O'Sullivan was writing out his motion, I wrote out another one. As I said before, I do not think it was right that the onus should have been placed on me in the matter, but since I was anxious to assist the Dail, since I was anxious to bring in a report that I could stand over, I was willing to take an onus that did not properly rest on me, and I handed in a motion asking that James Larkin, Senior; James Larkin, Junior, and the proposer and seconder of the James Larkin, who was   nominated as a candidate for North City Dublin should be summoned before the Committee on Procedure and Privileges.  That motion was ruled out by the Chairman of the Committee.  I am not going to question the ruling now, but I want to answer a point that I know will be made, a point that was made, in fact, by the President, that when we had an opportunity of asking for these witnesses we did not do so. I submit that we did ask that these witnesses should be summoned.  They were not summoned, and, therefore, I say that this particular report of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges which was prepared and has been submitted to the Dail, without hearing those who could give the only information that could decide the matter, should not be allowed, in any way, to affect the decision which the Dail is going to take. 
     
     Now, dealing with No. 10 on the Order Paper particularly, during his speech the Minister for Industry and Commerce announced that the Whips were not going to be put on in this division.  The Dail, therefore, can approach the question untrammelled by Party bias or Party discipline.  You are free to discuss it and to decide it on its merits, and I submit that is the only way in justice to this House, in justice to the people whom you represent, and in justice to the principle of popular representation, that you can decide it.  As the Minister himself said, we are creating a precedent, a precedent which afterwards may be invoked with far-reaching consequences. It is of the utmost importance, therefore, that whatever decision we make should be above all suspicion, should be made impartially and with our most judicial mind.  No thought of convenience, no thought of party advantage, should be permitted to vitiate that judgment, for, whatever the decision, our motive should be above suspicion, so that the precedent which we are creating may be beyond abuse.  But can the precedent which you are asked to establish, the precedent that the Dail, without examination of the law, without complete proof of the facts, can declare a vacancy to exist, be such a one?  Are there any   safeguards that this Dail could devise that will prevent such an illogical decision from being abused?  It is the property of precedents to enlarge themselves in operation.  The history of constitutional government is a record of precedents whose operation was extended far beyond their original scope. If those who follow the President habitually into the Division Lobby do so now, then this motion will be passed, not by intelligent appreciation of the facts concerned in it, but by mere numerical strength.  If it is, who can say but that on another occasion another Dail, another majority, intolerant, dictatorial and unfair, may not use this as a precedent to declare vacant the seats of such Deputies as inconveniently oppose them? 
     
      
       Bankrupts. 
     
     
      
       There are motes and beams in people's eyes.  I am not referring particularly to Deputy Gorey, but the less they talk about bankrupts in this connection the better. 
     
     
      
       I repeat the word &ldquo;bankrupt&rdquo; or any other disability. 
     
     
      
       Political bankrupts. 
     
     
      
       I ask the Dail to consider the terms of this motion.  I ask them, does it not strike at the very roots of democratic representation? Here is a constituency for which an election of eight representatives was to take place.  More than eight candidates were regularly and validly nominated. The election was duly held, the eight successful candidates were duly declared elected, and every step necessary to make their election effective was duly completed.  Yet, we are asked to state in the terms of this motion, upon no stated grounds whatsoever, that an unspecified seven amongst the eight candidates were elected.  Which seven candidates were elected, and what candidate was rejected?  In whose cases were the votes of the electors capable of producing a Deputy within the matrix of the election, and in whose case were the votes impotent and ineffective? You might think this was a matter that those asking you to create this precedent would be careful to state, but if you turn again to item No.   10 on the Order Paper you will find that the name of the candidate returned to serve, whom you are now asked to unseat, is not mentioned in this particular resolution.  We are told, of course, that it is going to apply to a certain James Larkin, but is that James Larkin the only person against whom that particular resolution might be directed?  Who knows but that it might not be used to declare the seat of my colleague, Deputy Sean T. O'Kelly, vacant simply because he had the temerity to criticise a judge who, with impropriety and in an ill-mannered way, interfered with a jury in the proper discharge of its functions. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy should not deal with any matter before the courts, and he knows that quite well.  That is a most disorderly statement, and the Deputy is well aware of it, I am sure. 
     
     
      
       Very well, then, I withdraw, if I may, with your permission. Who knows but that this particular motion might not be used to declare vacant the seat of the Minister for Local Government because, on one occasion, he acquiesced in the organisation of a camorra within the Army.  Or it might be used against my friend, Deputy J.J. Byrne, or against Deputy Alfy Byrne because his identity is sometimes confused with that of his colleague for North City Dublin.  With the resolution passed in the form in which it appears on the Order Paper, there is not a Deputy in the House, no matter on what bench he sits, against whom it might not afterwards be used. 
       In speaking on this matter, the Minister for Industry and Commerce asked the House to accept this dictum: that the question of law required no decision, and that the only matter involved was one of fact.  In asking us to assume that the law in this matter is clear beyond all doubt, the Minister, who no doubt is as able to handle a law-case as he was a coal strike upon one occasion, proposed this most extraordinary hypothesis: that a person was validly and properly nominated as a candidate, and that the votes cast for him&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
     
      
       On a point of order, I would like to know if this James Larkin is the one and same person as the James Larkin referred to in questions on to-day's paper? 
     
     
      
       Surely that is not a point of order. 
     
     
      
       I do not know.  At any rate the legal hypothesis which the Minister for Industry and Commerce put to the House was this: that a certain person was validly and properly nominated, that the votes cast for him were validly and properly cast, and that in a proper and valid way he secured the quota necessary for election; that he was duly and properly returned as elected, and yet, notwithstanding all these things, that he was, in fact, not elected.  I ask the House to examine the hypothesis.  He was properly nominated, the votes were properly cast and properly counted, he was properly declared returned as a Deputy to serve, and everything was done in an ordinary, regular way, and yet, notwithstanding the fact that everything necessary to create a Deputy was fulfilled, the person in fact was not a Deputy.  Now, that reads like a proposition from &ldquo;Alice in Wonderland.&rdquo;  I do not know what court of topsy-turveydom the Minister for Industry and Commerce is going to practice before, but I think that when he comes to argue such a proposition as that before it, the way in which he can best advance his argument will be by standing on his head.  Surely only the most extreme dearth of reason and argument could coerce the Minister for Industry and Commerce to put forward such a case.  Is it not an outrage on common sense to ask the Dail to reconcile these two contradictory propositions?  Is it not more reasonable to assume that if the person involved was all the while disqualified from being a Deputy then he was all the while disqualified from being a candidate. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Is not that the most logical and the commonsense view of it?  Is it not, in fact, the principle which is at the very root of all electoral   law, that only those persons who are qualified to become candidates are qualified to be elected? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       I see Deputy Cooper making notes.  There is one exception under the Corrupt and Illegal Practices Act that persons disqualified from being elected may be regarded as candidates, but only for the purposes of that Act.  If a person disqualified from being elected is nominated, he is not, in fact, a candidate, except for the purpose of enforcing certain legal penalties. Should he break the electoral law he is, for the purpose, and for the purpose only, of the Illegal and Corrupt Practices Act, regarded as a candidate.  I think that is the rational way of looking at it. 
       Let us examine the proposition put before you by the Minister&mdash;that a person can be properly nominated as a candidate, that votes can be properly and validly cast for him, that that person can be properly and validly declared elected by the Returning Officer, and everything that is necessary to make a Deputy can be done in due and proper form, and yet all the time the person cannot be elected as a Deputy. I submit that it is much more reasonable to assume that a person who was disqualified from being elected as a Deputy was disqualified from being nominated as a candidate.  That is the point of view I would like to put forward. As I say, I am a layman.  I do not feel competent to determine the law in this matter, but it seems to me that that is a principle that could be more easily upheld than that which the Minister for Industry and Commerce put forward.  I am not going to decide.  I am not going to ask the Dail to decide between these two propositions, because I know I am not competent, and I think the Dail&mdash;in the main an assembly of laymen&mdash;is not competent to determine this question.  Therefore, how is it going to be determined?  Surely there must be some tribunal before which these questions can be argued out. 
     
     The experience of other legislatures shows that the most unsuitable tribunal is a tribunal such as this, where every decision, even if it is not in fact determined   by political considerations, will be under the suspicion of being determined by such considerations.  For years the English House of Commons had jurisdiction in these matters of election petitions.  Long experience showed that it could not, and was not in fact, a body capable of discharging the judicial functions entrusted to it in those matters.  In order to overcome these disadvantages, election petitions and all matters affecting electoral law were in time referred to special committees. A special committee of the Commons was set up to deal with them, but even that was unsatisfactory. How unsatisfactory a committee of the legislature dealing with matters of electoral law can be you have proof, if you wanted proof, in the report submitted by your Committee on this particular matter on the identity of two persons&mdash;one of the simplest things to solve in a proper way.  But the Committee was not anxious to solve it in a proper way. They were anxious to have a decision and a report that would suit their case in this motion, and so, as you have seen, without sending for the principals involved, without sending for the persons who were involved secondarily, they summoned to their presence a gentleman holding an official position who, when asked, stated that he was not competent to give an opinion upon this matter, and he could have only given an opinion.  It would not have been proof; it would have been surmise, an opinion.  It would not have been admissible as evidence if he had given it, and yet, having heard that gentleman, who himself was conscious how thin the ice was on which he stood&mdash;I say that in commendation of him and not in blame&mdash;having heard that gentleman, and having refused to hear either of the Larkins who might have been the candidate or the Deputy involved in this matter&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       On a point of order, is the Deputy in order in making a misstatement here&mdash;that the Committee refused to hear persons&mdash;when he knows that such is not the fact? 
     
     
      
       I wonder how the Deputy supports that? 
     
     
     
      
       By the fact that I asked those who are the principal movers in this matter to send for the witnesses whose evidence would have been conclusive.  As I have said, the onus of proof was upon the Parliamentary Secretary who is the proposer of this motion, who was a member of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges and who refused to discharge that onus and those who voted with him on the report refused to discharge it.  I am entitled to say, therefore, that they did not want to hear an essential witness in the matter.  I have referred to that to show how unsatisfactory decisions and procedure of the Committees of the House can be on matters of this kind.  Our experience has not been unique.  It is, I think, practically the universal experience of legislatures, and in consequence of that all questions relating to the electoral law and the election of Deputies have been taken out of the hands of the Legislature and entrusted to the judges of the land.  We say that here is the position: You have two legal propositions.  One is in accordance with common sense. The other, that which was stated by the Minister for Industry and Commerce, outrages common sense.  We have heard that &ldquo;The law is a hass.&rdquo; I do not know.  At any rate we are not competent to determine which of these propositions is the right one, and therefore the whole matter should be referred to a competent court, to men who are remote from politics, to men many of whom never engaged in politics and who will be concerned only to interpret the law, bearing in mind the positions they hold and the public prominence their decisions will receive. 
     
     There is one other point.  The Minister for Industry and Commerce asked this House to do a most extraordinary thing.  He said: &ldquo;Let the House take a decision on this motion.&rdquo;  It is quite possible that the decision you will take will not be a correct one.  It is quite possible it will not be a just one.  You have therefore the certainty that when you take that decision you are going to aggrieve some person.  We have heard a lot about the rights of the subject from the Government, but when you weigh the statement of the Minister for Industry and Commerce, it is   the most extraordinary proposition that ever a responsible member of a Government committed himself to. 
     The Legislature which should be concerned to aggrieve no person, the Legislature which should be concerned only to deal justly with every one of its subjects, or its masters&mdash;we are all the servants of the people&mdash;aggrieves one citizen of the State in order that it may prove itself right or wrong.  This citizen is going to be offered up&mdash;a sacrificial offering&mdash;to the political necessities of a Government who are anxious to strengthen, if they can, their tenuous and tired majority in this House.  I am certain that the result of this election will be a disappointment to their hopes.  Again, I ask you to weigh up that proposition.  I do not know whether I should put it in another way which would convey its enormity to the House.  Consider it again.  You are asked to aggrieve a certain person in order that you may prove yourself right or wrong in this matter.  If you think on it.  I am afraid that the language that would bring home to you the enormity of that suggestion would be such that it would almost outrage decency.  A Deputy has been, if you like, illegitimately elected, and the Minister for Industry and Commerce asks this House to procure an abortion. 
     
      
       As a member of the Committee, I want very briefly to state why I voted for the answers in the affirmative to the two questions which were put to the Committee by this House.  Listening to Deputy MacEntee in this House, and having had to listen to Deputy MacEntee for three or four days on the Committee, I begin to wonder whether the Deputy has not forgotten that he himself was a member of the Committee.  He has spent close upon an hour attacking a Committee of which he was a member. He states that the majority of that Committee were not concerned very much as to whether James Larkin was or was not an undischarged bankrupt, and he implied that the majority of the Committee had their minds made up before ever the Committee met.  It may be true, or it may not be true, that the majority of the Committee had their   minds made up.  But so far as I, personally, am concerned, I had not my mind made up.  I want to go further and say that if I could conscientiously vote to keep Jim Larkin in his seat I would do so, for this reason&mdash;that even though he and I do not agree upon many things, still he is a Labour man and would be more to my liking than the Deputies returned either with Deputy MacEntee's Party or with the Cumann na nGaedheal Party.  He is a Labour man and was returned as a Labour man, and for that reason, if I could conscientiously give him my vote, and say that I was not satisfied on the question, I would have done so.  Deputy MacEntee laid a good deal of emphasis on the fact, as he said, that the Committee refused to send for the essential witnesses&mdash;for the two Larkins, and for their proposers and seconders.  But it is only fair to say that Deputy MacEntee and his colleagues refused upon more than one occasion to move that these witnesses should be sent for. Deputy MacEntee did not tell this House why he or any of his colleagues were not prepared to move that these witnesses should be sent for.  That was a very noticeable omission from his very long speech. 
     
     
      
       It was not our business. 
     
     
      
       Deputies will allow Deputy Morrissey to proceed. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy said that he was not there to prove this case.  I suggest that Deputy MacEntee, and every member of the Committee, no matter what Party he belonged to was there to find out the truth and to report on the truth to this House.  There is emphasis laid on the fact that we are going to set up a precedent here, and that it may be a dangerous one.  Surely we are not going to allow a person to be deemed to be elected and to sit in this House who was never eligible for election, in order that we may save ourselves from setting up a precedent.  We are setting up precedents in this House every day in the week. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear! 
     
     
     
      
       I certainly came to the conclusion on the Committee&mdash;I was confirmed in that view by listening to Deputy MacEntee here now&mdash;that if James Larkin, senior, came before the Committee, stated on oath that he was James Larkin, senior, and that he was the person who had been nominated and elected a Deputy, and that he was, upon the day he was elected, an undischarged bankrupt, Deputy MacEntee would not even then have been satisfied. 
     
     
      
       Prove that now. 
     
     
      
       It seems to me that Deputy MacEntee is too innocent altogether to be a politician.  If Deputy MacEntee is as innocent as he would have us believe, then he is too good for this House.  The Deputy said that the Committee refused to send for the Larkins, whose evidence would have been conclusive.  How does the Deputy know it would have been conclusive? Why does the Deputy say that their evidence would be conclusive? Conclusive of what, or conclusive to whom? 
     
     
      
       To the minority, of course. 
     
     
      
       It seems to me, sir, that any member of this House who wants to get at the truth, any member of this House who wants to give a fair verdict on this matter, can do so if he reads the Minutes of Evidence given before the Committee on Procedure and Privileges in the Larkin case.  Deputy MacEntee and some of his colleagues on those Benches know much better than I do&mdash; they are quite clear in their own minds who the James Larkin in question is. There is no question whatever about that.  I give Deputy MacEntee and his colleagues credit for more intelligence than they would give themselves credit for.  Then there is this letter, which was sent to the Returning Officer for Dublin City North: 
       &ldquo;Dear Sir,&mdash;I have to acknowledge, on behalf of Mr. James Larkin. the receipt of permits to allow candidate, agent and one other representative to attend the counting of votes for North City&mdash;Yours faithfully, James Larkin, Jr.&rdquo; 
     
     
        We are told that it is quite possible that James Larkin, described as of Unity Hall, Marlboro' Street, Dublin, trade union official, and General Secretary of the Workers' Union of Ireland&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       Has the Deputy any proof that that letter was actually written by James Larkin, junior. 
     
     
      
       I have, what I think the Deputy has not very much of. I can claim to have a little common sense. 
     
     
      
       You are very common. 
     
     
      
       I certainly have as much proof, though I might not be as agile as the Deputy when he put down a question and referred to Mr. James Larkin of Dublin.  It is very noticeable that he did give us Marlboro' Street or Beechwood Avenue. The Deputy knows a good deal about the James Larkin and could probably tell the House whether or not the James Larkin was an undischarged bankrupt.  The Returning Officer admitted before the Committee that the person who came to see him in response to his message was James Larkin, senior.  He stated, in the course of his evidence, which he afterwards corrected, that Mr. James Larkin said to him: &ldquo;You have no right to object to my nomination.&rdquo;  Dr. Sherlock said afterwards that he was not quite clear as to whether that was the word or whether it was: &ldquo;You have no right to object to this nomination.&rdquo;  But Dr. Sherlock had no doubt, from what passed between him and James Larkin, that Mr. James Larkin, senior, was to be the candidate.  The poster was also talked of.  Deputy McEntee told us, when he spoke first, that one of those who was described as James Larkin, senior, had his photograph in the &ldquo;top centre,&rdquo; as he put it described as James Larkin, senior, and at the bottom one was described as James Larkin, junior.  I think the Deputy corrected that afterwards. 
     
     
      
       The top centre was Mr. James Larkin, senior. 
     
     
     
      
       The other was John Lawlor, and the particular constituencies for which each candidate was standing were stated on the posters.  I do not wish to delay the House very much longer, but I want to give my reasons to the House for voting in favour of this report.  I do not want to speak for anybody except myself, and in my opinion the evidence produced was such as would convince any reasonable man.  Because I was convinced and because I thought it was my duty to answer truthfully and in accordance with my own conscience and judgement the questions which were put to that Committee by the House, I voted in favour of the report. 
     
     
      
       I wish to ask the Deputy, in view of the fact that he was a member of a Party involved in the legal action which resulted in declaring a James Larkin a bankrupt, how he can claim to be an impartial judge? 
     
     
      
       Which Party, will the Deputy say? 
     
     
      
       Which Party took an action against a James Larkin? 
     
     
      
       The Labour Party. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy knows that that is not a fact. 
     
     
      
       They took an action against the Deputy a few years ago, for which they were truly grateful. 
     
     
      
       On a previous occasion we had here a motion, and on this occasion we have an amendment; we are really discussing them both.  Formally, I presume, we are discussing the amendment.  I think the House will have noticed that hardly a single Deputy opposed to the original motion and apparently in favour of the amendment, or opposed to the amendment and in favour of the original motion, thought it worth his while to examine the amendment and see whether there was anything in it.  I am going to follow the example of other Deputies in that respect.  No effort has been made to show that in fact and in practice the amendment means anything or can mean anything, or that, if passed and accepted by the House, it can be carried out.  The suggestion has   been made in one or two of the speeches &mdash;a kind of dull, low echo to the amendment&mdash;that it ought to be referred to a competent court, but none of the Deputies in favour of the amendment has attempted to show how it could be put before a competent court at the present moment.  The mover of the amendment was challenged, I think, by the Minister for Justice as to how that could be done.  He was asked had he thought out fully what was involved in the amendment and how it could be carried out.  Did he attempt to shoulder that responsibility?  Nothing of the kind.  He practically asked the Executive Council to take the parentage, so to speak, of his own amendment, to tell him what the amendment meant.  That was an instance of delightful diplomacy on the part of the Deputy. 
       I refer to this simply because it is just asking a trifle too much that the Government should do his thinking for the Deputy when he puts forward the amendment&mdash;that they should explain to the Deputy and to the House what the amendment means.  I also refer to this because, that the amendment has not been referred to by those who are professedly in favour of it, and has not been dealt with, is in itself a proof, an indication, that there is no other means of dealing with this situation than the means proposed in the motion moved by the Parliamentary Secretary.  We cannot explain Deputy de Valera's amendment because, as the Minister for Justice put it, we know no other course of action that we could take before a court. 
     
     
      
       There are none so blind as those who do not want to see. 
     
     
      
       I quite admit that, and there were four Deputies on that Committee, and whether they were blind from malice or merely blind through other causes I cannot say, but blind they were, as Deputy Morrissey has pointed out.  Deputies can read this particular report that was presented and the minutes of evidence that were presented by the Committee. 
     
     
      
       They were not mute. 
     
     
      
       No, they were not mute.  That is also quite clear to us, perhaps not to our minds, but to   our ears, after what we heard to-day and after what Deputy Morrissey assured us&mdash;he need not have, because we would have taken it for granted&mdash; occurred at the Committee.  May I be permitted to give that amendment the respect given to it by those in favour of the amendment and by other Deputies in the House, and pass on?  When this motion was introduced, and when the Parliamentary Secretary spoke on the matter, he was told that it was more or less put up to us and the House that something was being done that was unprecedented, unheard of, almost that the Government for which he spoke was guilty of turpitude in the action they were taking&mdash;almost insulting the House. 
       What have we done in regard to this vacancy?  In fact, we have dealt more fully with this vacancy in the motion proposing it than with any other vacancy that has occurred and that necessitated a by-election.  We are told that in this case there are questions of fact and questions of law involved.  If I may quote Deputy Redmond, there is really a point of fact and a point of law that will largely depend on the determination of the point of fact. That holds true and has held true of every other vacancy that occurred in this House since 1923.  I heard Deputy MacEntee's speech, and I have read the speeches delivered here when the motion was being debated, and I will ask those Deputies who are not committed to any particular Party, have they ever listened to such an amount of quibbling and of trifling with the House as they have listened to in the course of this debate?  No absolute legal proof, we are told, has been offered; there was still a possibility that something else might have been the case.  Supposing the same course of reasoning was adopted with regard to every other vacancy in connection with which by-elections have been held, could any other by-election have been held since 1923 under our Acts? 
     
     It may be said that in the previous vacancies we were dealing with facts that were notorious.  I suggest that here we are also dealing with facts that are notorious.  It may be said that in the other cases the point of law involved   was quite simple.  It was not more simple or clear than the point of law involved in or the particular section dealing with this case.  It was never before suggested that in order to determine, as we were bound to determine or take for granted in every case, a point of fact or a point of law, we should go to a court in connection with the matter.  Yet, as I say, in every case we have had to take action.  We were not asked to decide the law, but to act according to the law.  As was pointed out, I think by you, sir, the result of any motion here will not deprive any individual of any rights he has&mdash;will not deprive him of going before a court if he has a case, any more than would a similar action in the case of previous vacancies. 
     Deputy O'Connell, I think, said we are being asked to decide that there is a vacancy.  We are being asked in this case to do what we have always done.  Assuming, as we know to be a fact, that there is a vacancy in this particular seat, we are asking the Ceann Comhairle to proceed with the issuing of a Writ.  That is the procedure we have adopted in every case. The other cases were quite obvious, but the thing has been made a matter of principle.  It is said we are usurping the functions of the court.  So far as principles are concerned, we are no more usurping the functions of the court than we have done in the case of the other vacancies. 
     
      
       May I ask the Minister if he can prove in law that there is a vacancy? 
     
     
      
       We are proceeding in this case as we have proceeded in the case of every other vacancy, and I would have the same difficulty in proving in law in the case of the other vacancies that I have in this case.  There were four distinct types of vacancies since I came into the Dail in 1923.  Take the case of the death of a Deputy.  If we are sure that the Deputy is dead, there is a vacancy. But imagine Deputy MacEntee trying to show that the Deputy was really alive and gone to America.  How could we prove it three months after that the Deputy was dead?  I can imagine   all the subtlety and quibbling he would go on with to show that in reality there was no vacancy&mdash;that it was really an attempt on the part of the Government to get votes.  There is a point of law involved in the case.  There being a vacancy, how is it to be filled?  It is the Constitution and the Electoral Act which determine how every vacancy is to be filled.  We are bound to act according to the law.  It was never suggested in that case that we should go before a court.  The Ceann Comhairle never formally informed the Dail of the death of any Deputy.  We assumed it&mdash;we went on the common and notorious knowledge, and we moved for the Writ, as the Parliamentary Secretary moved for the Writ in this case. 
       It could be debated as to whether a vacancy of that kind should be filled up.  It might be argued, for instance, that it was against the whole principle of proportional representation that you should have by-elections at all.  All these things could be argued, to show that there may be some doubts about the law.  The law is no more clear in the cases I am referring to than it is in the particular case of the undischarged bankrupt we are now discussing. 
     
     Resignations.  There also we have a fact.  In any of the various vacancies that occurred the Ceann Comhairle never formally announced a vacancy to the Dail.  He never told the Dail there was a vacancy.  He said in each case of resignation that he had received a letter from the Deputy tendering his resignation.  Afterwards, that being so, the Dail took action, just as certain facts being established the Dail is now invited to take the appropriate action, namely, the seat being vacant, it intends to proceed with the election in the normal way.  Similarly, with a more involved case&mdash;the case of a Deputy being elected for two seats.  There again there was not even an intimation formally before the House that there was a resignation of one seat and the acceptance of the other.  There was simply an acceptance of one seat in the case of you, sir, when you were elected for the City of Dublin and the National University, and in the case of Dr. MacNeill when he was elected for Clare   and the National University.  In each case the Deputy opted for one seat. Again, a question of law arises, but the House never for a moment thought it was necessary to refer that obvious point of law, that obvious action on their part according to the law, to a Court, any more than they ought to consider it necessary now in the case of the sub-section dealing with an undischarged bankrupt. 
     
      
       Is the Minister criticising those responsible for the 1923 Electoral Act? 
     
     
      
       No, he is dealing with the law as it is and not criticising anybody.  The Deputy must take the law as it is and not as he would like it to be.  How he would like it to be, I have not the remotest idea. 
     
     
      
       I do not know what it is. 
     
     
      
       There is not the slightest doubt as to what the law is on this particular point.  It is that an undischarged bankrupt is neither capable of being elected nor of sitting in the House.  What is the ambiguity about that?  There is nothing about his not being capable of being nominated, but he certainly is not capable of being elected or of taking his seat&mdash;neither of these two thing, and remember they are distinct. 
     
     
      
       Therefore, he never created a vacancy. 
     
     
      
       Precisely. It was never his seat.  I was coming to that.  He was never capable of being elected or of taking his seat.  There is a distinction, as Deputies ought to know, between being elected and taking his seat.  Certain formalities&mdash; shall I call them?&mdash;have to be gone through after the election before a Deputy can take his seat in the House. But the law is perfectly clear&mdash;there is no ambiguity.  It is as clear in this case as in any of the other cases of casual vacancies that I have referred to.  There is no ambiguity about it here, no more difficulty in acting according to it here, when we have the facts established, than there was in any of the other cases, or that there is in any case of this kind.  Apparently the   ingenuity of some of the Deputies opposite has gone so far as to suggest that not merely is there a doubt as to which James Larkin was elected, but as to what seat the motion referred to. All these arguments of Deputy MacEntee, his doubts about which James Larkin was nominated, on the one hand, and his doubts about what seven members actually have been elected, are pretty much on the same level. It is all word-spinning or logic-chopping of a very obvious kind.  It is quite true that we are not saying that Mr. Larkin's seat is vacant.  It is not.  It was never Mr. Larkin's seat&mdash;that is our contention.  Our contention is that there were only seven elected, and therefore the motion has to confine itself to facts.  Even if it was to make it clear to the somewhat, I will not say naturally, but possibly occasionally, wilfully opaque minds that have been brought to bear on this point, we could not put in a motion what is not a fact &mdash;that Deputy Larkin has vacated his seat.  He has not.  He never had a seat in this House and was never entitled to a seat in this House. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister admit now that the count of the votes has not been completed? 
     
     
      
       Of course he will not admit it. 
     
     
      
       No.  There is nothing so obvious as the charming simplicity that comes from the benches opposite. 
     
     
      
       It is the obvious truth. 
     
     
      
       It is an absolute refusal to face the obvious facts in this matter, that distinguishes practically all their policy.  There are few things clearer than the matter we have now before us.  I suggest that in reality the speeches we have listened to from the benches opposite in opposition to this motion are really trifling with this Assembly.  There may have been, on the part of some Deputies, genuine doubts apparently that the thing was not properly presented, but I suggest when Deputies have read those findings of the Committee and the documents there given in facsimile in the short minutes of evidence, I think whatever   little hesitation they would have had on the question of facts, namely, whether James Larkin was an undischarged bankrupt, and whether the undischarged bankrupt was the person nominated, ought to have vanished. Deputy Redmond had some strictures  pass on the way in which the Government dealt with the matter.  With the strictures I am not in agreement, but there is something in the contentions he put forward, and they have been met.  He asked that certain things should be done.  These things have been done.  The questions of fact ought to be quite clear to Deputies, and if the questions of fact are clear, then it is clear there is a vacancy, and if there is a vacancy there is only one way which this House knows of dealing with it, and that is to proceed with the issue of a Writ. 
     
     
      
       I was one of the unreasonable minority on the Committee of Procedure and Privileges.  If there was no doubt in the mind of the Dail as to whom the particular James Larkin was, I wonder why it was necessary to refer the matter to a Committee at all.  Most of those who spoke in favour of accepting the Report seemed to be as positive that Mr. James Larkin, senior, was the candidate as it is alleged we are positive that he was not.  I would like to say with regard to the remarks of Deputy Morrissey that he was led to believe that even if Mr. James Larkin was produced Deputy MacEntee and myself would still be of the opinion that he was not the candidate&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       On a point of explanation, may I make it clear that Deputy Boland, during the proceedings in the Committee, did not appear to me to be nearly as unreasonable as Deputy MacEntee. 
     
     
      
       I was not looking for that.  I think the minority on the Committee did put up a case.  We have been asked why we did not propose to send for, and bring them before the Committee, the two Larkins, and the proposer and seconder of James Larkin, and the reason was pretty obvious. Deputy Duggan introduced the motion   and we maintained that the onus was on him to prove that this James Larkin, senior, was the candidate.  We wanted conclusive evidence, and if that evidence was produced, and if Deputy Duggan wanted unanimity&mdash;I know he was certain all along of a majority&mdash;I certainly think he should have sent for those people whom we thought necessary as conclusive evidence.  One member of the Committee actually wanted to know what would we do if they happened to be dead.  The Ceann Comhairle said that that was a hypothetical question.  Anyhow, we made the case there to show that the evidence was not conclusive.  If everything was so plain as the Minister for Education would have us believe, why was the matter sent to a Committee to be investigated? Doubt was expressed from the day of nomination whether it was a trick or not.  I am not certain, but it was not clear.  Deputy Morrissey thought the document signed J. Larkin, junior, was conclusive.  I understand the name on both nomination papers, for Dublin City North and Dublin County, was James Larkin.  It does not say James Larkin, junior, or James Larkin, senior.  The point was made at the Committee that it might have been a formal acknowledgment of an invitation to be present on behalf of James Larkin&mdash;it did not say which&mdash;signed by James Larkin, junior.  Undoubtedly he sent it. 
     
     
      
       Tell the House all about it. 
     
     
      
       I will tell the House everything, and Deputy O'Sullivan can add anything that he thinks I have left out.  I do not want it to go unchallenged that the attitude of the minority was unreasonable.  It was possible to produce what would have been conclusive evidence and that would have led to a unanimous report. If the Committee had produced the evidence that we thought necessary we could not have got away from it. It was not our business to produce the evidence.  We held, and we hold still, that the onus of proof was on Deputy Duggan. 
     
     The Minister for Education said there was a precedent in the case of the   Ceann Comhairle and Dr. McNeill in the matter of vacancies in the Dail.  I do not admit that at all because they were people who were actually in the Dail.  That is the same as the case of the President who, at the last election, after being elected for Kilkenny and Cork, resolved to sit for Cork.  There was no question of identity there.  There is a question of identity here and we maintained that further evidence should be procured that would be conclusive evidence.  We indicated what the evidence was; if they were not prepared to send for it that was not our business.  We believed we were justified in our action, that is really all I want to say.  There is no comparison between the cases the Minister for Education cited&mdash;the case of the Ceann Comhairle and Dr. McNeill&mdash;because they were bodily present here. 
     
      
       It was not on the question of fact that I cited that case but on the law involved.  I wanted to show that in all these cases there is the question of law and the question of fact. 
     
     
      
       What I am mostly concerned with is to try to justify my action on that Committee.  I might have been considered unreasonable in my action but if there was no problem to be solved it would not have been necessary to have referred the matter to a Committee.  I admit the majority had a right to decide.  Our attitude, I will not say has been held up to ridicule, but it has not been presented in the right light.  I think it is up to us to justify the action we took and not to allow ourselves to be held up as most unreasonable people.  I contend that those on whom the onus of proof rested were most unreasonable in not making an attempt to have a unanimous decision arrived at by producing people whose evidence would have been conclusive that Mr. James Larkin, Senior, was the candidate.  That could have been very easily done.  If Mr. Larkin himself did not come before the Committee his proposer and seconder could have been got, and that would have settled the whole thing.  That was not done and, consequently, we voted in the minority. 
     
     
     
      
       I speak on this matter because of certain inaccurate statements made both by Deputies MacEntee and Boland as to what happened at the Committee.  Even the report of the minutes of evidence taken has not been read accurately by the Deputy.  I want to refer particularly to the point where the Under-Sheriff for Dublin was asked by the Chairman Question 11, page 2:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;You were satisfied yourself that the person being nominated was Mr. James Larkin, Senior&mdash;or were you so satisfied?&mdash;I do not think I am bound to express an opinion of that kind.&rdquo; 
     
     A perfectly proper remark from one who was described by the Deputy as a paid official.  The reply of the Under-Sheriff was not read, but the statement was made that the Sheriff said he was not able to express an opinion.  Now, Deputy MacEntee introduced his speech with his favourite quotation of &ldquo;in and out and round about.&rdquo;  Between the Committee and his speech in the Dail I have never heard anything so much &ldquo;in and out and round about,&rdquo; and such a positively absolute failure to attempt to put up any case why he refused to come to a decision in the Committee and sat blandly and blindly in opposition saying &ldquo;I am not satisfied.  The onus is on somebody else.&rdquo;  I would refer the House to the Order here of the 2nd March resolving that questions one and two be referred for inquiry and report to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges, and that for the purpose of this inquiry the Committee on Procedure and Privileges be empowered to send for persons, papers and records.  That did not put on anybody, either on the Parliamentary Secretary to the President, or on me, or on Deputy Cooper or even on Deputy MacEntee, the onus of proving anything. Two questions were submitted to the Committee for an answer, and it was plainly for them to arrange what evidence they required and what they did not require.  Deputy MacEntee and even Deputy Boland, as I say, talked &ldquo;in and out and round about.&rdquo;  Deputy MacEntee went a little bit further than he went in Committee, having said that we came   into this House&mdash;he did not suggest it in Committee&mdash;with the intention of declaring a vacancy.  Now, when we sat in Committee it was Deputy MacEntee's right, and Deputy Boland's and my right, and the right of any other member of the Committee to move that any witness, provided the witness is named, be sent for, and talking about James Larkin, Junior, and James Larkin, Senior, here, is talking &ldquo;in and out and round about.&rdquo; 
     
      
       May I ask the Deputy a question? 
     
     
      
       You may ask any question you like, provided it is not &ldquo;Who started the Civil War?&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       You know. 
     
     
      
       I know, and I know a good deal more now.  If I were to start it again I would&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Is it not a fact that Deputy Duggan was the person who presented all the documentary evidence that was presented at that Committee? 
     
     
      
       Again, I would refer the Deputy to the report.  He will see and remember, if he has any memory, that even Deputy Duggan was, to some extent, opposed to my proposition that the Under-Sheriff of Dublin should be sent for.  It was I who was responsible for the motion that the Under-Sheriff should be sent for and the documents presented were presented, as the report clearly shows.  I would ask the Deputies to read the report. As the report shows, these documents were presented by the Under-Sheriff of the City of Dublin. 
     
     
      
       May I ask a question? 
     
     
      
       I cannot answer two questions at the same time. 
     
     
      
       Let the Deputy finish with one question. 
     
     
      
       I would explain that I am not going to take on myself the responsibility of a Minister who may be asked questions.  I am not here to defend the report.  Any questions the Deputies wanted to ask they could   have asked as members of the Committee. They did not ask them.  An opportunity was given to Deputy MacEntee to move that Mr. Larkin be sent for. 
     
     
      
       I did move it, and was ruled out of order. 
     
     
      
       The Ceann Comhairle happens to be absent from the House, but I do not intend to go back on the matter.  It was ruled out of order when it was moved too late.  The Chairman of the Committee gave every opportunity, and as a matter of fact the resolution which I was to propose was passed round the table before I moved it, so that in case any member of the Committee had anything further to say he would get an opportunity of saying it.  I understand one thing cannot be raised even in this House now, that is that the Chairman of the Committee ruled improperly or unjustly. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Deputy&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       You may not ask the Deputy anything. 
     
     
      
       Was not the general information to us given by Deputy Duggan? 
     
     
      
       The Deputy must be allowed to continue his speech as other Deputies were. 
     
     
      
       I wanted to ask&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I did not hear what he asked. 
     
     
      
       You do not want to hear. 
     
     
      
       Deputy O'Sullivan referred to Mr. Larkin as Deputy Larkin, while the Minister for Education holds he is not a Deputy at all. 
     
     
      
       I withdraw &ldquo;the Deputy.&rdquo;  Now I have read the order of reference, what we were sent into Committee to report on.  The whole proceedings of the Committee were, from one angle, brought up here to-night. I do not propose to go into that again.  The documents speak for themselves. I want to say I have no personal or party interests as to the rights   of a James Larkin, whether he is senior, junior, or medium, to be a member or a Deputy of this House.  The Committee on Procedure and Privileges is one which should do its work without being guided on party principles and should enter into its deliberations without feeling it was justifying Deputy Boland or Deputy MacEntee, because they had not any desire to have their action go before the House. 
     
     
      
       It should justify Cumann na nGaedheal motions. 
     
     
      
       What do you know about Cumann na nGaedheal motions? As far as I remember the discussion in the Committee, what troubled Deputy MacEntee and Deputy Boland most was that the country should know.  Now, from the two hours' debate the country will likely have heard and known enough of what did happen in Committee. 
       Two questions were submitted to the Committee.  The Committee found on the questions.  No tangible or reasonably sensible argument has been set up by the Deputy against the motion that is moved except Deputy MacEntee's suggestion that that vacancy might mean that either of the two Deputy Byrnes or any of the other Deputies here to-night might thereby be unseated, although five minutes later, in response to a question about the occupancy of two seats, Deputy Boland said the members themselves were present in the House and that is a different matter. 
     
     We know that seven Deputies for this constituency are present in the House and that there is an eighth person who was said to be elected but who has not been present in the House.  It is only childish to talk of the unseating of Deputy J.J. Byrne or Deputy Alfred Byrne, or even Deputy O'Kelly.  It is also childish to parade for this House the 22 O'Kellys who were nominated for the Dublin Corporation in some ward which Deputy O'Kelly subsequently represented notwithstanding the fight against the 21 other members of the clan.  It is childish to bring such an argument before this House.  The important question is whether the person adjudicated a bankrupt by a Court of competent jurisdiction in Saorstat Eireann is or   is not the person who was returned in the election of September, 1927, to be a member of this House.  The Committee on Procedure and Privileges have found that the person so adjudicated a bankrupt is the person who was returned as a member of this House. 
     So I submit that the motion that the Writ should issue is one that should be supported, not on party grounds at all, but so that the Dail would always have its full complement of representatives of the people.  I do not think that a question of fact or law enters into this at all.  The Committee was asked to answer two questions, and it has answered them.  No tangible argument has been put up here against these answers.  Nobody asked for other witnesses and nobody brought others there, and the debate was not entered into in a party spirit.  I think it was Deputy Cooney asked were these letters proved, was there proof that J. Larkin, Junior, wrote that letter.  That letter was produced as evidence that a person who wrote that letter and signed it acknowledged a certain document; that letter proves itself. 
     
      
       It proves nothing whatever. 
     
     
      
       Whom does he acknowledge it for? 
     
     
      
       The Deputies were not so voluble when asked questions at the Committee.  I do not quite know which question which is asking. 
     
     
      
       What does that letter prove? 
     
     
      
       That letter was one of the documents in evidence before the Committee.  The Committee made its findings on that as well as on other documents and other evidence.  I referred to the question about proving the letter and who wrote that letter. That is the only reply.  That is why I ask the Dail to pass this motion and to reject the amendment. 
     
     
      
       As one of those who voted in the majority in the Committee on Procedure and Privileges, I would like to give you my views as to why I arrived at the conclusion I did.   This whole matter arose in a debate in the House on Thursday week on the question as to whether a writ should issue in North Dublin or not.  It will be in the memory of all the Deputies here that that debate was abortive, and that by the general consent of the House two questions were put to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges to decide.  I happened to be a member of that Committee at the time.  In the ultimate, this House has to decide by a vote or unanimously, whether a Writ should or should not issue, and the Committee on Procedure and Privileges were to decide, by yea or nay, the two questions that were put to them.  They were placed exactly in the position of jurors to whom a judge hands up questions to answer in the affirmative or in the negative.  By a majority we have answered the questions in the affirmative. 
     
     I do not intend to rehash the proceedings of the Committee&mdash;the report is before the Dail&mdash;except to say that, on the first day that we met, I approached this question with a perfectly open mind but on the first day I was by no means convinced that we had sufficient evidence that the James Larkin who was returned by the Returning Officer as elected for North Dublin was the James Larkin who was a bankrupt. Certain documentary evidence was brought before us, including a poster showing photographs of James Larkin, Senior, James Larkin, Junior, and somebody else, but there was no printer's name on that poster and, so far as I was concerned, it might have been printed on the day before.  It did not give me any evidence whatever that the poster concerned that particular election.  A handbill dealing with another candidate was produced which incidentally mentioned James Larkin, Senior, and James Larkin, Junior.  That I did not consider sufficient evidence. But when the Returning Officer came before us and produced the nomination paper and this letter from James Larkin, Junior, on behalf of James Larkin, presumably and incontrovertibly the candidate, I was convinced at once that the James Larkin, of Beechwood Avenue, and the James Larkin of Unity Hall was the candidate, and that   we had nothing else to do but to answer the two questions by the word &ldquo;yes.&rdquo; We are in the position now that we of the Committee and the whole House have to decide whether the finding is correct or not.  I think on the last occasion that this matter was debated the Minister for Industry and Commerce said that he would take off the Whips.  I am perfectly certain that if he takes off the Whips that there is not a member of this House who has read this Report and who approaches this matter in a reasonable frame of mind, will have any doubt whatever that the finding of the Committee is correct on the evidence before it.  If it is left to a free vote of the House to decide, and I think it should be, I have no doubt at all if this House is composed of men of reasonable intellect that they will decide that the Committee was correct in its findings. 
     
      
       As one of the Deputies who is in danger of being unseated in the North City of Dublin, perhaps I might say a few words, with some local knowledge of the actual facts. It has been suggested by members on the opposite benches that in the North City of Dublin there was considerable doubt as to who the James Larkin in question really was.  Now living in that vicinity, and having to meet the electors of that constituency, and hearing the various qualifications of the different candidates canvassed from time to time, I do suggest with full knowledge of the facts, that members of the Opposition benches are not dealing with this motion in a sincere way and are not dealing with it in the way in which it should be dealt with. 
     
     
      
       Diogenes. 
     
     
      
       Especially do I suggest that to Deputy Cooney who has interrupted so frequently in this debate. I can tell Deputy Cooney that there was one mode of voting followed in that election that caused his return to this House, and that was &ldquo;vote Jim Larkin No.1, and vote Cooney No.2.&rdquo;  If that mode of voting had not been followed we would have a different Deputy in the House from Deputy Cooney. 
     
     
      
       Had Deputy Larkin a surplus? 
     
     
     
      
       I merely mention this to show&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I will not give way to Deputy Cooney.  Sit down. 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy raising a point of order? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  The Deputy has made the definite statement that I would not be in this House&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Is that a point of order?  I rule it is not. 
     
     
      
       The interruptions of Deputy Cooney are characterised by irrelevancy. 
     
     
      
       Could it be possible that the Deputy was returned because he was confused with Deputy Alfred Byrne? 
     
     
      
       We have in the North City two Deputy Byrnes&mdash;Deputy Alfred Byrne and Deputy J.J. Byrne&mdash;and the most harmonious relations, I am proud to say, exist between us.  The matter at issue here has been magnified in a way which it does not deserve.  It seems as simple as going out to a racecourse to back a horse. A certain number of horses run, but one is disqualified.  That is the position of Mr. James Larkin.  He was allowed to run but he was disqualified after passing the post.  That is the matter in a nutshell. We have been asked by Deputy MacEntee to refer this matter to a competent court.  Anybody who was here when this debate was inaugurated had the benefit of an exposition of the law on the subject.  We have been told that at this stage of the proceedings there is no procedure in law to deal with this matter.  Members on the opposite Benches know as well as I do what the law on the subject is.  In Section 51 of the Electoral Act of 1923 no member can be elected to this House who is an undischarged bankrupt.  It was proved by the production in this House of a certificate of bankruptcy that the candidate who had been illegally elected was an undischarged bankrupt.  There was clear evidence of the bankruptcy of Mr. James Larkin.  What followed after that fact was established?  There was not a voter in the whole of the North   City area who did not know that Mr. James Larkin was a bankrupt, and everybody said that it was merely waste of time to go and vote for him, as he would never be returned to the Dail. 
       If members opposite, who possess all the wisdom of Solomon, pursued their legal rights in the matter they could have brought a petition and claimed the seat within twenty-one days of the election.  Perhaps, however, there was method in their madness, because, if they had petitioned, I have no doubt that the seat would have gone to Lord Mayor O'Neill.  I was present at the counting of the votes, and I know how keenly the contest was waged.  If a petition had been presented, neither the Government Party nor the Party opposite would have got an extra member, and Alderman O'Neill would have been in the Dail to-day.  We have been told by the Leader of the Opposition that the motion we propose to carry is ultra vires, that this House has no power to issue a Writ.  Is it not time for members opposite to realise that this is a sovereign assembly with sovereign powers?  There are legal members on the opposite Benches who know what that means as well as I do.  They know that an assembly which possesses sovereign powers can do anything it is asked to do.  They know that it can make or unmake laws.  They know that it can change the established Constitution of the country, and, if necessary, it can legitimatise the illegitimate. They know that it can do anything in a constitutional way except turn a man into a woman or a woman into a man. That is the constitutional law, and Deputies on the opposite benches know it as well as I do, and they know when they advocate the course of action which they have proposed that it is entirely illogical. 
     
     Now we turn to the problem of the identity of the candidate.  As regards that, I believe that the Committee on Procedure and Privileges have come to true and proper findings.  I have already stated that it was a matter of common knowledge that it was Jim Larkin&mdash;in Dublin we have only one Jim Larkin&mdash;who was standing for the vacancy in question.  The question we have to consider is not a question of   law, as the time for any procedure by law has passed.  There is now no legal remedy in existence.  We are the power concerned, and we are concerned with matters of fact.  On matters of fact the Committee on Procedure and Privileges have given a verdict, and it is up to the House to accept it for what it is worth.  To anybody who means to act in a reasonable and common sense way the evidence of Dr. Sherlock is proof conclusive that Mr. James Larkin was the candidate in question.  Dr. Sherlock stated that he sent word to James Larkin, Senior, that his nomination was objected to; that Mr. James Larkin, Senior, waited on him in Green Street Courthouse and was informed of the objection; and Mr. James Larkin, Senior, said, &ldquo;You have no power to reject my nomination&rdquo; (with emphasis on the word &ldquo;my&rdquo;) &ldquo;if the paper is correct.  I have got counsel's opinion on that point.&rdquo; 
     Dr. Sherlock was even more cautious still.  In order to establish the identity as clearly as possible, to quote his own words, he said: &ldquo;I got them to put in &lsquo;General Secretary of the Workers' Union of Ireland&rsquo;.&rdquo;  That basic fact is on the nomination paper.  &ldquo;I know,&rdquo; Dr. Sherlock said, &ldquo;as a juror that he was recognised as the General Secretary of the Workers' Union of Ireland.&rdquo; In answer to a question by Deputy O'Hanlon, Dr. Sherlock said that the nomination was authorised by Mr. James Larkin, Senior, himself.  Let us threat this question in the light of plain, cold common sense and leave out all the party issues, for, after all, it is not a party issue.  We have been told by members opposite that the Government are not going to win this seat.  If that is so, what injury will members opposite suffer?  I think, however. they know that the Government Party are going to win the seat.  We are here to decide on very plain facts.  It has been suggested by Deputy Flinn that we are not capable as a body of laymen to decide these very simple issues. I venture to say that any twelve men empanelled as a jury would give a verdict on such an issue almost without leaving the box.  The facts are as plain as the noonday sun.  Mr. James   Larkin, General Secretary of the Workers' Union of Ireland, was a candidate. He was disqualified, and a vacancy now exists in the North City constituency which it is our duty to fill. I, for one, shall support the motion, and I speak not as a party man but in the light of plain reason and common sense. 
     
      
       With reference to the point raised by Deputy J.J. Byrne with regard to my position, I wish to say that, with one exception, I received more first preference votes than any member of this Party. 
     
     
      
       I look upon this debate, so far as I have listened, as a preliminary canter for the coming by-election. On the one hand we have Deputy Cooney, and from his face one could see that he is shouldering the whole burden of this debate, and trying to play to the people outside for the votes which Mr. James Larkin got on a previous occasion.  On the other hand, you have Deputy J.J. Byrne trying to defend the action of those who have brought forward this motion.  I intervene to deal with the two points stressed by Deputy Gerald Boland.  He seemed to think there was no difference in the form of nomination paper handed in by Mr. James Larkin for the county Dublin, and the form handed in by the Mr. James Larkin, the man who caused all the trouble and is getting this free advertisement, for the North City. Deputy Gerald Boland must candidly confess that in the form of paper for James Larkin as handed in for the county Dublin there does not appear the description &ldquo;General Secretary, Workers' Union of Ireland.&rdquo; That appears in the form of nomination for the North City.  Deputy Boland, I think, made his whole case on the point that Mr. James Larkin&mdash;the Larkin&mdash;was not sent for or brought before the Committee to make certain that he was the person charged with being a bankrupt, and being a bankrupt, not eligible for being elected. Deputy Cooney, I am sure, will admit that this James Larkin whom we are discussing was on a famous occasion appointed one of the Twelve Apostles who were to rule the world, one of the   governors of the earth.  I state, on very good information, that when the Committee on Procedure and Privileges was sitting Mr. James Larkin was at that time walking back from Russia where he had been attending one of the meetings which he has to attend occasionally as one of the rulers of the world. If he was walking back, or running back, or travelling in whatever way he does, it would have been impossible for the Committee to produce him. 
     
     
      
       Is this Labour Deputy sneering at the new economic system which obtains in Russia? 
     
     
      
       Is Deputy Cooney defending it? 
     
     
      
       Deputy Cooney is the one person who is seriously alarmed as to the result of the decision on this question.  I look upon him as an understudy to Mr. James Larkin, and he should be in a position to say if Mr. James Larkin was in Dublin or not during the inquiry by the Committee on Procedure and Privileges.  If he was not in Dublin, but was walking back from Moscow, it would not have been possible to produce him to state whether he was the individual in question or not. 
     
     
      
       Why not give him the opportunity? 
     
     
      
       The plain fact is that Deputies who are making play of this motion know perfectly well, as well as I do, and I have no prejudice in the matter, that Mr. James Larkin, General Secretary, Workers' Union, is the James Larkin who was adjudged bankrupt on a certain occasion, and it is because of that I am going to vote for the motion that stands in the name of Deputy Duggan. 
     
     
      
       I think it is common knowledge that Mr. James Larkin was home before this Committee had concluded its investigation. 
     
     
      
       I would like to make use of the privilege I got from the Ceann Comhairle to explain my position.  I believe I am the Deputy who suggested that this matter should be sent first to the Committee on Procedure   and Privileges.  I did so because I had certain doubts with regard to the whole procedure.  I pointed out that the only official evidence we had before the House to enable us to form a judgment was the statement read out by the Clerk, which appeared on the official journals of the House.  It is because I wanted to have some official evidence that there was, in fact, a vacancy I made the suggestion, and these matters were referred to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges.  I want to say briefly and definitely that so far as I am concerned the doubts that were in my mind have been resolved by the report of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges. 
     
     I am accepting the report without any doubt and without making any qualifications.  Therefore, I am prepared to accept that the Mr. James Larkin who was returned to serve in this House was in fact bankrupt at the time he was so returned, and is, therefore, not eligible for election; but I say still that the form in which this motion was put down is largely responsible for the trouble which has arisen.  It is asking us to state something which it is not necessary to state for the purpose of this proposed by-election.  In any case I do not know how &ldquo;a vacancy exists in the Borough Constituency of North Dublin.&rdquo;  It is not the usual form in which to put it; it should be &ldquo;a vacancy exists in the representation of the constituency of North Dublin.&rdquo; There are numerous vacancies, I expect, in the constituency of North Dublin. It is a small matter and not worthy of mentioning except for those who have to be careful regarding the records of the House.  Many people doubt as to whether there are eight vacancies or only one.  It was open to anybody to take such action as would disqualify those they believed illegally elected, but such action has not been taken. We must, therefore, accept the position as it is.  In view of the findings of the Committee on Procedure and Privileges my doubts, as I have stated, have been resolved, and I am prepared, though reluctantly owing to its form to vote for the motion.  I would prefer if it had stated quite plainly and definitely that it was necessary to fill this vacancy which was caused by the fact   that this Mr. James Larkin on the date of the General Election was an undischarged bankrupt.  As it is impossible to do that now, and as there is a vacancy that has to be filled, and as it is a matter for this House to fill the vacancy, I am prepared to vote for the motion. 
     
      
       The attitude we on this side of the House adopted was that this was assuming by the Dail functions that were properly the functions of a court.  Deputy J.J. Byrne has elaborated the powers and sovereignty of the Dail, and the numerous things it can do, and he referred to some of the things it cannot do.  But it is the first time, as far as I am aware, that the Dail has tried to assume what should be properly judicial functions. It has set itself up as a court to inquire into and decide questions of evidence and certain questions of law.  We, of course, at the outset, and when finally the matter was being referred to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges, stated we were still opposed to that on the principle involved.  We had a very long speech from Deputy O'Sullivan.  We might have expected that he would have kept that Committee on Procedure and Privileges in its investigations within reasonable bounds of legality.  Instead we find that the greater portion of the evidence put before that Committee would have been ruled out by any competent court of jurisdiction. 
     
     We find that the main portion of the evidence, at least, in this report before us now, is concerned with hearsay.  Starting on the first page, a good deal of emphasis is laid on what a certain Dr. Sherlock had heard.  He heard that Mr. James Larkin was to be a candidate.  Probably a lot of people had heard that also, but it was brought forward to try to get evidence &mdash;something of what was heard outside. It would be expected that Deputy O'Sullivan, if he wanted to have it in any sense a legal Committee and carry out a legal investigation, would, at any rate, inform the Committee that they could not take notice of such evidence as that.  Instead of that we find, perhaps,   that Party ran riot to try to get in what would not be allowed in a court.  They come before the Dail now with two things from which they say the Dail must conclude that a certain James Larkin, of Unity Hall and Beech wood Avenue, is the same person who was adjudicated a bankrupt.  They base that on the hearsay evidence of this Dr. Sherlock, and on a document put in to the report signed by James Larkin, Junior.  A lot of emphasis is laid on that letter.  Personally, I do not see what it has to do with the matter, or what assistance it could give. The James Larkin described in the letter is not described as James Larkin, Senior, or James Larkin, Junior.  It does not describe him as general secretary, or anything like that. 
     Reference is made to a nomination paper, and the majority of the Committee in their efforts to try to get some little tittle of evidence that would look plausible, to some members, of the Dail at any rate&mdash;I say plausible, because they could not get any other evidence &mdash;got a nomination paper for the Dail election, and there also we find James Larkin, described neither as junior nor as senior, described as a trades union official in the first instance.  Dr. Sherlock stated that he got that struck out and got the words &ldquo;General Secretary, Workers' Union of Ireland,&rdquo; put in. Dr. Sherlock does not state that that was at the request, or with the approval or acquiescence of the people who handed in the nomination paper.  No James Larkin appeared before Dr. Sherlock and handed in the paper, and except that some gentleman called down to Dr. Sherlock some time before the election there is no evidence whatever of any touch or contact between any particular James Larkin and the Returning Officer. 
     Of course I know the position that this Committee found itself in when it went to investigate this matter.  A certain section, a majority, went there with prejudged ideas.  They went in, as I said, to try to bring something before the Dail which would look plausible, which would excuse the judgment they had already arrived at.  For that purpose they come along with these few little facts, or what they call   facts, and ask us to hold that they had conclusive evidence before them.  The first, I say, is evidence that would have been ruled out, as Deputy O'Sullivan knows, by any competent court in this or any other country.  The second is, that it does not give any description that would identify the particular James Larkin who was a candidate. These two facts being disposed of, what have we to go on?  There is no proof that this James Larkin who was a candidate for the election was the person who was adjudicated a bankrupt.  Of course we have a lot of talk here.  We had, for example, Deputy Morrissey talking about Deputy MacEntee being too good for this House, and in the next breath he talked about his conscience. I was inclined to think that Deputy Morrissey was too good for this world&mdash;not only for this House&mdash;when I heard him talking about his conscience. The report is based&mdash;all that is put forward here, and the so-called conclusions of the majority of the Committee&mdash;on the fact that there were prejudged ideas. 
     A motion was put before this House in the first instance.  A certain section on the opposite benches, or some people, at any rate, on the Government Benches, had come to the conclusion which they asked the Committee to come to.  Naturally the members of the Committee who were members of the Government Party had the same ideas on this question, as they have in other matters, as the few people on the Front Government Benches; whatever those few people say must be accepted as infallible.  That has been the practice as far as we have seen during the little time that we have been in this House, and I am sure it was not deviated from in this instance.  Therefore, these four or five people.  Deputy O'Sullivan and the others, went in to deal with this matter on the basis that this particular James Larkin was the person who was a candidate and who was adjudicated a bankrupt.  There has not been a single tittle of evidence put before this Dail by the Committee, not a single whit of legal evidence, at any rate, that would prove that this particular James Larkin was the James Larkin who was adjudged a bankrupt.   I defy anyone on the opposite benches to show it.  We hear talk about &ldquo;commonsense,&rdquo;&ldquo;doesn't everyone know it,&rdquo;&ldquo;not being childish,&rdquo; and so on.  Deputy O'Sullivan knows, as well as everyone else, that in the courts every day people are acquitted because evidence is not legal which, if admissible, would bring about a different decision.  Only the other day Deputy O'Sullivan was defending somebody in Donegal&mdash;I am speaking subject to correction. There was a Donegal case, at any rate, where a person was charged with murder or some charge like that, and the witness who had given a particular statement to the Civic Guards, just the same as Dr. Lorean Sherlock, on hearsay&mdash;but this was even stronger &mdash;went back on his statement, and we had the usual outburst that this was a great miscarriage of justice, and the State Prosecutor entered a nolle prosequi.  That happens every other day. 
     There has been a good deal of talk about who should or should not have brought some Mr. Larkin or his nominator or seconder before the Committee. That is a way of trying to shift the blame apparently to someone else. Deputy MacEntee says he asked that Mr. James Larkin should be summoned before that Committee.  While not controverting that statement, Deputy O'Sullivan said it was then too late. I do not know what the point was about its being too late, or what was the urgency in having to report to this House, but Deputy O'Sullivan knows quite well that any case in the courts he may be in, will never be decided without notice, at any rate, being given to the other side.  Of course, the Dail in its recklessness to set itself up as a judicial body, must apparently constitute for itself different procedure altogether, and this Committee must try someone behind his back.  Was there any difficulty about getting in touch with the person alleged to be James Larkin who was adjudicated bankrupt, or getting in touch with and summoning the nominator, seconder or assentors to the nomination.  There does not seem to have been any attempt made.  There may have been some reason for that. I leave that to the majority of the Committee, who decided in a certain way.   What I submit is that this case shows that the Dail is taking on itself what should properly be the functions of the courts.  There is a simple way of dealing with any difficulty that arises. Everyone on the Government Benches knows it, as they have dealt with these matters in somewhat analogous, I will not say similar, proceedings.  This is an attempt to establish a precedent on these lines.  I say that it is a dangerous precedent, one that is making for trouble and disaster if allowed to go on.  At any rate, let the House not try to fool itself, and let the majority of the Committee not try to fool the House and say that they have got any evidence, that they have got one title of legal evidence more than the prejudged ideas they had when they went into the Committee. Were it not for those ideas which they had before they went into the Committee, they would not be coming before the Dail to-day and recommending it to take a certain line of action, or to act in a certain way, when there was, as I say, no legal evidence to support it.  They know that, and it is not necessary to argue it.  Even if this House was satisfied that a certain position was so, if that position was to be defined by the courts, then it was the function of the courts to define it.  If there is any difficulty about the courts defining it, there is a way, as I say, to get the courts to do so.  The Government Party knows that there is no difficulty about that.  It has been done before, not in similar cases but in analogous cases.  The objection that I take mainly to this is that the majority report of the Committee is more a whitewashing attempt to try to get something plausible. 
     
      
       I am sorry that Deputy MacEntee is not here, because I want to praise him, but I hope his colleagues will transmit the praise.  I admired Deputy MacEntee this afternoon. I admired his eloquence.  I admired the infinite ingenuity with which he managed to make a simple question complicated; and above all I admired his skill in changing his ground.  I have not yet received the syllabus of the Tailteann Games, but if there is a   competition in changing ground Deputy MacEntee is certain to bring a medal back to the Dail.  Four weeks ago Deputy MacEntee and others were proclaiming that the only satisfactory tribunal to judge a question of fact was a Committee of the Dail.  This afternoon Deputy MacEntee got up and said that the only competent jurisdiction to decide a question of fact was a judicial body, men remote from politics, men who had not recently been, engaged in politics, men who had a knowledge of the law of procedure and of the law of evidence.  I am quoting him roughly.  He certainly said &ldquo;men remote from politics.&rdquo;  He thought that a Committee of the Dail was the best possible body to decide a question surrounding the circumstances under which a man was shot.  That is still-before the tribunal, and I do not want to prejudge it.  But if we are not competent to judge of a question relating to our own membership, of what questions are we competent to judge? Committees have their limitations. They are not, as Deputy Ruttledge has suggested, legal bodies.  It is impossible, I think, to get a Committee of the Dail composed entirely of Deputies who have a legal training.  We had on the Committee of Procedure and Privileges two solicitors, according to the normal usage one of them on each side, and we had one barrister.  But I take Deputy Ruttledge's point.  The procedure was not the legal procedure, and it is possible that we admitted evidence that might have been ruled out on the objection of counsel on one side or the other if there had been counsel present. We never could get business done in the Dail if we followed the legal procedure strictly, for the reason that we do not have the assistance of counsel.  We cannot have Committees confined entirely to barristers and solicitors&mdash;it would be a great injustice to the Labour Party if we had&mdash; and the bulk of Deputies are not competent to judge legal questions. But what the practice has always been on our Committees&mdash;and I have served on more committees than I can think of&mdash;is to adopt a rough and ready procedure   to try to ascertain the facts, and that is what was done in this case. 
     
     One point made by Deputy Ruttledge is that we did not follow legal procedure, that we admitted evidence that might have been inadmissible in a court.  If there had been legal representatives of the other side to argue the point, it might have been proved that it was admissible.  That point never arose, and I do not think it ought to. The second point, which was Deputy MacEntee's main point, was that certain witnesses were not summoned.  I want to know where this summoning of witnesses was to stop.  If we summoned Mr. James Larkin, Senior, and Mr. James Larkin, Junior, and the proposer and seconder of the Mr. James Larkin who was nominated, their evidence, if we had got it, would have been partisan evidence, and I am inclined to think that if we had heard one candidate, and the proposer and seconder of one candidate, and his namesake or namesakes&mdash; because Deputy MacEntee's argument went so far as to say that any James Larkin who described his address as Unity Hall might be the candidate&mdash; where were we to stop?  We might eventually exhaust the twenty-two O'Kellys that Deputy MacEntee spoke of; we might have a squadron of J.J. Byrnes all coming up and saying that they might be the candidate.  We might have had an atmosphere of partisanship and an atmosphere of controversy that could not be avoided.  But the Committee went to the one person to give evidence who was an impartial official.  He was the returning officer, who was not allowed to take sides, and who, in his evidence before the Committee, did not take sides.  I know that Deputy Little will agree with me there; he would not give an opinion on the question at issue.  I only know, on the question of the evidence, firstly, the fact that Mr. James Larkin, Senior, visited the Returning Officer and had a prolonged conversation with him about his candidature, and never suggested that Mr. James Larkin, Junior, was the candidate and not himself.  Secondly, there was the letter from Mr. James Larkin, Junior, on behalf of Mr. James Larkin, Senior, written on the eve of the poll, acknowledging certain documents, and, thirdly, the fact that in the   nomination paper the seconder of Mr. James Larkin is described as James McEvoy, Junior.  If they were so careful about the &ldquo;Junior&rdquo; in that case why did not &ldquo;James Larkin, Junior,&rdquo; appear as the candidate on the nomination paper?  Deputy MacEntee argued that between the interview with the Returning Officer and the polling, Mr. Larkin might have changed his mind and decided to substitute some other candidate.  The letter written on the eve of the poll indicates that there was no change of mind, and the nomination paper indicates that.  These three facts, to my mind, were abundantly satisfactory. 
     Turning to the general question, Deputy MacEntee tells us that we are making dangerous precedents, that the seat of almost any Deputy can be imperilled by passing a resolution of this character.  We have got to make precedents. We have been making precedents ever since I have been in this Dail.  We are a new legislative body making precedents, but there is no great danger, for the simple reason that the grounds on which we are proceeding are well-known grounds of qualification. There are certain grounds upon which you can disqualify members for participation in the proceedings of a legislative assembly.  One is conviction by a civil court.  A little over four years ago a Deputy, a member of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party, was convicted by a civil court, and his seat was vacated.  Another ground is bankruptcy. Deputy MacEntee says this is a dangerous precedent that we are establishing.  He does not want precedents. Under Section 33 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1883, as probably Deputy MacEntee is aware, a bankrupt is disqualified from membership of the House of Commons.  The Deputy referred a good deal to England, and this is an English Act.  The Speaker of the House of Commons, under this section of that Act, as soon as he becomes aware that a member of the House has been a bankrupt for a period exceeding six months, is empowered, even if the House is not sitting, to issue a writ for a new election at once.  He can do that without even consulting the House. Therefore, bankruptcy is a well-known ground for disqualification in a legislative   assembly.  It is not creating any dangerous precedent to say, when it is true, that a man is a bankrupt.  Deputy MacEntee, in the course of his cloquent argument, never sugested that Mr. James Larkin is not a bankrupt. The bankruptcy documents which the Committee had before them were quite convincing on that point.  They prove that the man is a bankrupt.  Then automatically the Writ must issue. 
     It may be said that is the precedent in England and that we need not be bound by it.  But, as I have indicated, we have our own precedent here, and to say that the passing of this motion is taking a leap in the dark and creating a dangerous precedent here is not in accordance with the facts. Deputy Ruttledge said, as regards the Committee, that one section of it went in with prejudged ideas.  Was it only one section?  Had not Deputy Ruttledge and his colleagues made up their minds before they went to the Committee?  I venture to say that none of us could go into a matter of this kind without having certain prepossessions.  I do not think we could entirely free ourselves of prepossessions in a matter of this kind after having heard it discussed by individuals and seen it discussed in the Press. 
     
      
       On a point of personal explanation, I do not think it is fair to say that those on our side have made up their minds.  Personally, I have not yet made up my mind, because the evidence before me was not of a legal nature. 
     
     
      
       It is fair for Deputy Ruttledge to say that I had made up my mind; but it is not fair for me to say that Deputy Little had made up his mind.  I went before the Committee to see what evidence would be produced. I had certain prepossessions in favour of a certain course.  I will admit that I thought Mr. James Larkin was Mr. James Larkin.  I have known of him for a long time, and certain incidents that occurred during the election had, more or less, made a certain impression on my mind.  I really think there is a certain amount of prejudice on each side.  I am not saying that offensively to Deputy Little, but all of us must   inevitably have had a certain amount of prepossession in one direction or another.  I do not think, therefore, that it is fair to charge one side with prejudice and let the other side wash their hands of it. 
       Deputy MacEntee made the rather amazing statement that this was not only creating a dangerous precedent but that it was undemocratic.  Is it undemocratic to ask the constituents in North Dublin City to decide whether they are to be disfranchised or not?  Is it undemocratic to ask the voters in that constituency whom they want to represent them?  If that is undemocratic, then it is the most amazing proposition that I have ever heard put forward.  If the voters in North City Dublin wish to be represented by Mr. James Larkin they can nominate Mr. James Larkin.  They can give him a sufficient number of votes, not to elect him, because he is disqualified, but to ensure that they will continue to be disfranchised.  On that there is the well known precedent that was established in England about 100 years ago.  I am sure Deputy MacEntee knows of it.  It was the case of John Wilkes.  He was elected a member of the House of Commons and was disqualified, but the electors in his constituency persisted in re-electing him.  They kept on electing him until eventually the House of Commons got tired of the thing.  If the electors in North City Dublin want Mr. James Larkin and at the same time want to be disfranchised, they can have him, but surely they ought to be asked whether they want him or not.  How it can be undemocratic to ask the voters in that constituency to decide the question is beyond me. 
     
     
      
       I propose that the division on this matter be taken before 7 o'clock.  I hope the Deputies who wish to speak will accommodate themselves accordingly. 
     
     
      
       It is a nice commentary on the brain power of our front line trench that the gentlemen who sit there and who, I believe, are going to bequeath their skulls to the College of Surgeons when they die, should ask the House to decide this question after their six years legislation.  During   that time they framed four coercion Acts for the purpose of hunting their political opponents out of the country. They passed an Electoral Act in 1927, and yet in spite of all this legislation we have no means of settling the point that has arisen here.  We have no guarantee that the same thing will not occur again at the next General Election. At that election the country will probably be faced with &ldquo;a bankrupts' organisation.&rdquo;  The present trend of things in the country is that way.  I think if such an organisation is established it will be able to return a majority of members to this House&mdash; that is, if the present state of affairs continues.  You will have in every constituency three or four bankrupts going up for election and getting returned. Then you will see the kind of House you will have here.  There is nothing to prevent that happening.  It appears to be assumed that the report of the Committee at present before the House is correct, and that there is a vacancy in North City Dublin.  Of course we should not forget that after the last election we had the declaration made here that eight members had been declared elected for that constituency. If there is a vacancy now, I submit that one of these selected candidates must be in the process of election. 
     
     Under the system of proportional representation, the Returning Officer should long ago have gone into this if there is a vacancy in the constituency for the purpose of finding out who was next highest on the list at the time of election.  That person should, I think, be declared elected.  That would be the ordinary democratic way of filling the vacancy if one exists.  The point is which of the two Mr. James Larkins was elected.  The method now proposed is to issue a Writ and to have a new election and, I take it, a straight fight. But, I ask, is that the proper way under proportional representation to secure elected representatives?  I admit that the gentlemen on the opposite benches are finding themselves in a tight corner.  They are beginning to feel that their future legislation is going to be so unpalatable even amongst their own members, that they will have a few breaks away and that by some means   they must get another seat.  We are told now that only seven members have been elected for this constituency, but we all recollect that the names of eight members were read out here and that these were stated to have been duly elected to this House.  It is surely a ridiculous state of affairs to find that Mr. James Larkin was not asked to appear before the Committee.  After all a prisoner&mdash;we can call Mr. Larkin a man on trial&mdash;is entitled to consult with his judges, but Mr. James Larkin was not summoned last week to appear before his judges.  Was it that they were afraid to meet him in Committee.  He must be a very terrible person when such a rigorous law as this has to be put in force against him so as to get rid of him.  I doubt, however, if you are getting rid of him.  I am inclined to think that at the next election Mr. Larkin will bring in a majority here. 
     I would not be at all surprised, mind you, because the present trend in this country is that nine-tenths of the people will soon be bankrupt, and they will undoubtedly elect other bankrupts. You will have a bankrupt organisation here.  I am absolutely certain that you will have a bankrupt organisation putting up candidates at the next election, and I cannot see how you are going to get rid of them&mdash;these idiots who have worked, and who, on account of working, have found themselves in bankruptcy while the drones are fattening on their sweat and are knocking out a good time here out of their labour. You will see all those poor fellows going up at the next election.  They will get rid of the drones.  The bankrupts will be candidates, and very probably after the election will be occupying the front trench opposite.  I at any rate can see no reason why we should turn round and deny the people the right to have whatever representative they elect and to have him sitting here.  There is no doubt in life that they elected James Larkin.  He was declared elected by the Sheriff, and his name was read out here as one of the candidates elected.  Six months afterwards the President gets a brain-wave that the coming legislation is going to be so unpalatable even to his own members that he is going to have a breakaway and that he must try by some   means to get another seat.  I am certain he will exercise due judgment and that he will get a good decent Mason to represent the constituency. 
     
      
       I avail of the privilege to deal with this matter again. The arguments that I have heard have been, for the most part, beside what I regard as the real point in this matter. The motion says that we are to fill a vacancy.  We have, first of all, to be satisfied that a vacancy does exist. What are the arguments put up here to show there is a vacancy?  We are told that a certain James Larkin, who is assumed to have been the candidate, is bankrupt, or was bankrupt at the time of the election, and therefore he could not be elected.  Granting that assumption, does that prove to us there is a vacancy?  If the Returning Officer, for example, made a mistake, or if his return was not correct, does it mean that all the votes that were cast have to be regarded as invalid votes?  Votes were cast for eight candidates.  Some eight were duly elected, and eight people capable of being elected were, as a matter of fact, voted for.  How are we going to be satisfied now that those people who voted for the eighth person who was eligible, let us say, are legally to be deprived of their votes?  I say we cannot determine it.  Some of the best legal authorities are not satisfied about it, and here we are going to determine this complex question of law which has become particularly complex since the introduction of Proportional Representation. We are going to sit down calmly to determine it by the methods revealed, for example, at this inquiry as to the identity of James Larkin. 
     
     The casual manner in which this whole thing has been treated by the Government shows the amount of respect they have for law and for the rights of the citizens.  They pretend that they are coming on at this stage to see that the constituents are represented, that the people of Dublin City North are going to be represented. Why did they not take action immediately&mdash;they knew then, I daresay, as well as afterwards&mdash;when the Clerk announced here the return of eight members as being duly elected?  I would imagine that that was the proper   time to do it.  I submit they did not do it then because they got legal advice that they would be in a better position to declare a vacancy and nullify the effects of proportional representation by waiting for a certain period.  They waited for that period, and then they come along and say to us: &ldquo;Point out to us now, if you please, how we are going to proceed.&rdquo;  My amendment is very clear, and the trifling of the Minister for Education and some other speakers with it was of the very same character which shows the amount of respect for the House generally that their action on the whole matter shows. They did not even go to the trouble of bringing in and giving to the Speaker formally to bring before the House, a certificate of this man's bankruptcy. They say it was never done before.  I have got here, from the reports that have been given to me, an instance showing that on a former occasion when a Cumann na nGaedheal Deputy from Mayo was convicted in court, the Ceann Comhairle read out to the House the decision of the court, and declared that the seat was vacant.  Why was not that done here? 
     
      
       Will the Deputy say where he got that? 
     
     
      
       I do not know; I am reading from the report.  It has been given out of the reports. 
     
     
      
       The Ceann Comhairle read out a letter from the judge stating that a person who was a member of the House had been convicted. 
     
     
      
       That refers to a Deputy, while this debate here refers to a gentleman who was never a Deputy and who could not become one, under existing circumstances. 
     
     
      
       In any case it was formally announced to the House by the Ceann Comhairle that the Deputy had been disqualified and on that account the seat was vacant.  Here we are supposed to act on everything we hear in the Press and everything our neighbour tells us.  We are expected to act without any proofs whatsoever. I, for one, am not going to act in that way in this matter.  I definitely am   going to vote against the issue of a Writ in this case until we are satisfied that there is a vacancy.  The object of my amendment is clear.  It was to put the House in a position of knowing, by a certificate of a competent court, that a vacancy did exist. 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy think it could be got? 
     
     
      
       I know very well that if Deputies on the opposite side of the House wanted to get it they could get it, that if they wanted to have the matter tried before a proper court they could.  They say: &ldquo;Why do you not show us the means?&rdquo; Public money is being paid to the legal advisers of the gentlemen on the opposite benches.  They have public money with which they can retain legal advice; we have not. 
     
     
      
       We got that advice. 
     
     
      
       In any case I know enough to know this: that if we wanted actually to get a court to try this matter we could.  I believe our legal advisers could point out whether there are existing Acts under which a proper court could be set up, but if there is not in existence a proper court to try it out I see no reason why, for a matter of this kind, a short Act setting up such a court for that specific purpose should not be introduced.  It is of sufficient gravity to do it. 
       I think, as far as we are concerned, that I have pointed out very clearly why it is that before a writ is issued we wish to have it definitely decided by a competent authority that there is a vacancy to be filled.  We are asked to make decisions of this kind on the ground, as they tell us, of common sense.  A short time ago the Clerk of this House took upon himself the responsibility of excluding from this House Deputies who were entitled to be here.  Four senior counsel and three junior counsel whose advice we sought on it&mdash;four in consultation and three individually&mdash;gave their opinion, and I will read it for you now in order to show where we might land ourselves if we go, all the time, on this interpretation off-hand of Standing Orders, and the rest of it, and the interpretation even of the law.  The opinion on that occasion was:&mdash; 
     
     
       &ldquo; That there is no authority in any one under the Treaty or Constituation or Standing Orders of Dail Eireann to exclude any member of that House, whether he has taken the oath or not, from any part of the House, before the House has been duly constituted and the Ceann Comhairle thereof has been duly elected.  In case any such exclusion takes place we are of opinion that any Ceann Comhairle chosen in the absence of the excluded member or members will not have been validly elected.&rdquo; 
     That is to say, that the Ceann Comhairle would not have been validly elected.  The Clerk of the Dail took upon himself to play the part of Colonel Pride.  We do not know on some future occasions but we will have gentlemen here standing up to interpret the law as they please, and to act on their own interpretation of it.  We have heard a good deal of talk about respect for the courts and the independence of the courts.  Why not let this matter be tried by the courts?  If under the existing law there is no course or procedure by which we can bring this matter to the cognisance of a court, we can set up a court for that particular purpose.  The Ceann Comhairle himself, and some of the Ministers, I think, following him, said that if any person should be aggrieved accordingly by any action of ours, such as the issuance of a Writ&mdash;I am interpreting as well as my recollection will allow me what the Ceann Comhairle said&mdash;he intimated at least to me, and I am sure other speakers afterwards followed that line &mdash;he intimated to me that if a person were going to be aggrieved, if some person were going to be aggrieved by this action, he could have recourse to the court.  In other words, if any legal right exists that any action of ours could not deprive the person of that legal right.  If, for example, the eighth person to have been declared by the Returning Officer as having been duly elected&mdash;if that person is aggrieved by our action by the issuing of a Writ, that that person can go to the courts. I hold that it is not fair to put individuals to that necessity.  I hold it is not fair, first of all, to injure a person, and then afterwards tell him that he   has a legal redress.  That is the sort of thing we hear from the Minister for Justice every day in reference to the Garda Siochana&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       I beg your pardon.  I have never said that the Garda Siochana are entitled to injure anybody. 
     
     
      
       I am continuing my arguments, and apparently the Minister sees there is a little justice in it now.  The point I am trying to make is this&mdash;we have, time and again, asked questions with regard to the Garda Siochana, and we are always told that if any person is aggrieved he can take civil proceedings against them.  I say that is unfair.  It is the duty of the Department of Justice to keep discipline and control over their forces and to have such control over them that it will not be necessary for the civilian population to go to the expense of taking action in a court of law. 
     
     
      
       There is such control. 
     
     
      
       That is the way not to do it.  It is of the same type of thing as executing a man first and then allowing an appeal afterwards.  The duty of the Executive who have the public money at their disposal is to safeguard the rights of the citizens.  It is not fair to throw the onus back upon the private individual, and that is why I say that we ought not to issue this writ saying to ourselves that if we are acting illegally and some other person is aggrieved by our section that then that person has the right of entry into the courts.  I think it is unfair and unjust to do that.  I think this is not the court really to decide complex matters of that kind.  I think this House would do well in adopting the procedure which is adopted in other Houses which have experience of this sort of thing, in not deciding questions of contested elections where there is controversy. We say that these matters ought to be decided by a competent court.  I ask the Deputies here to safeguard the rights of individuals in this matter, and not to do wrong, or not to do what they believe might be wrong, simply because the person aggrieved would have some   kind of legal redress.  I ask the Deputies to consider this carefully, and if there is a doubt in their minds&mdash;and I am sure there is a doubt&mdash;as to the identity of the person, and if there is a doubt as to whether there is a vacancy to bear that in mind.  I am speaking honestly, and the presumption in my mind is that there is not a vacancy.  If this matter has to be decided on legal lines and in equity, in simple, plain natural justice, the simplest way is this: the papers are there and they can be recounted, and if this House decides, for example, that Mr. James Larkin was not eligible and could not have been elected at the time, then the papers are there and it is for this House to say who was properly elected and who was the person that should have been elected. 
     
     
      
       There are two questions involved in the motion.  One is a question of fact and the other is a matter of procedure.  So far as the question of fact is concerned, that was submitted to the Committee on Procedure and Privileges, who reported back to the House, and whose report is before the House.  I feel that anyone open to conviction is quite satisfied with the Report.  I think Deputy Morrissey replied satisfactorily to Deputy MacEntee, and it would be a waste of time to discuss any further the question of fact. 
       With regard to procedure, the only other question to be discussed, the matter appears to me to be quite plain. Under Section 51, sub-section (2), paragraph (c), of the Electoral Act, an undischarged bankrupt under an adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction in the Saorstat is disqualified from being elected a member of the Dail.  If the House is satisfied that James Larkin, the candidate in Dublin City North, was an undischarged bankrupt at the date of the election, then it is clear that he was disqualified not alone from sitting, but from being elected, and, consequently, he was never a member of the Dail, and the arguments of Deputies on the benches opposite fall to the ground for the reason that they were discussing the matter on the basis that the particular gentleman was a Deputy, which he never was. 
     
     
     
      
       The count was, therefore, not complete. 
     
     
      
       Any person who was aggrieved, or felt he or she was aggrieved, did not take any action in the courts or otherwise.  The election took place six months ago.  Seven of the eight Deputies returned as being entitled to serve in this House have been sitting in this House; they came here and took their seats.  The eighth person has never claimed his seat. Deputy MacEntee asks us to assume that the person who was the candidate must have been a person who was eligible to be a candidate, and that if the James Larkin, Senior, whom the Returning Officer interviewed, was not the candidate, therefore it was obvious that some other James Larkin came in in the meantime, got himself appointed secretary of the Workers' Union, and that he was the person who was elected. We are dealing with possibilities and probabilities.  There are all sorts of possibilities, and if one were to satisfy Deputy MacEntee, it is obvious to me, at least, that we should not alone have to summon James Larkin, Senior, and James Larkin, Junior, but we should have to summon before the Committee every James Larkin, either in Ireland or outside of Ireland. 
     
     
      
       James Larkin, of 31 Marlborough Street. 
     
     
      
       Deputy MacEntee would not have been satisfied and he would have adopted the same attitude as he does now.  That being so, I feel it is hardly necessary for me to say anything further.  No other Party took any action in this matter.  That particular constituency was disfranchised to the extent that there are only seven out of eight representatives in the House.  There is talk about a candidate Number 9.  That candidate could have gone into the courts.  Why was not there an election petition, and why was not there an effort to claim the seat?  That being so, the Executive Council felt it is their duty to see that the electorate get the representation they are entitled to.  The Government Party have considered this matter and they have taken legal advice, the best legal advice procurable.  That legal   advice is that the proper and legal method of remedying the existing state of affairs is to come to this House and ask that a writ should be issued and that the electorate itself should be asked to fill the vacant seat. I do not think there is anything very undemocratic about that.  Our friends opposite boast that if there was a General Election to-morrow they would sweep the country.  I thought they would have jumped at this chance of securing one seat. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Deputy if he has submitted for legal opinion the question of a recount? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  Every aspect of the question has been submitted for legal opinion. 
     
     
      
       Have you published it? 
     
     
      
       The position, as far as I can see it, is that this is not a Party question, for the reason that the gentleman concerned does not owe allegiance to any Party in this House. It was simply from the point of view of a duty to the public, to the electorate, that the Executive has taken the action it has taken.  I, therefore, ask the House to pass this motion. 
     
     
      
       In what capacity is the Deputy taking action in this particular case? 
     
     
      
       As a Party Whip. 
     
     
      
       In his usual capacity when a vacancy arises. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary say in what capacity he is taking action? 
     
     
      
       In every case in which there is a vacancy, the Parliamentary Secretary moves for the issue of a Writ.  It is the ordinary course. There is a vacancy here, and it is being dealt with in the ordinary way. 
     
     
      
       You are going to see that the constituents are fully represented&mdash;is not that so? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
     
      
       Did not that duty devolve on you before this? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       Why not?  I wish to raise another point with respect to possible legal action arising out of the issue of a Writ.  Is it not a fact that there are already precedents which would rule this out of court?  Remember, when the Writ is issued the election takes place in a short time.  If legal action were to be taken afterwards there are precedents which would rule out of court any appeal. 
     
     
      
       Surely, legal action can be taken immediately.  The courts are always prepared to hear a matter of that kind, a matter of urgency, and deal with it at once. 
     
     
      
       If the Writ is issued by this House&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Order, order! 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will remember that the question must be put before 7 o'clock. 
     
     
     
      
       Is not the presumption this: That the courts will not hear any person moving in the matter; that they will say that the Writ having been issued by a competent authority they have no jurisdiction? 
     
     
      
       That is peculiar view of the courts. 
     
     
      
       It is here defined in black and white in the Mitchel case. That is a definite parallel.  John Mitchel was held to have been disqualified; he was elected and re-elected, and when the question came up as to whether the House of Commons had acted ultra vires his counsel contended that the matter could not be taken cognisance of by the court.  It simply means that if this House is going to declare a vacancy and issue a Writ, they are prejudicing the whole question and preventing any body from having legal redress. 
     
     
      
       There is a different law and there are different judges. 
       Amendment put. 
       The Dail divided : Ta, 50; Nil, 80. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. Denis Allen. Neal Blaney. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Alfred Byrne. Frank Carney. Frank Carty. Michael Clery. James Colbert. Eamon Cooney. Martin John Corry. Fred. Hugh Crowley. Tadhg Crowley. Thomas Derrig. Eamon de Valera. Frank Fahy. Hugo Flinn. Andrew Fogarty. Sean French. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. Sean Hayes. 
             Samuel Holt. Patrick Houlihan. William R. Kent. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killilea. Michael Kilroy. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben Maguire. Thomas McEllistrim. Sean MacEntee. Seamus Moore. Thomas Mullins. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Timothy Sheehy (Tipperary). Patrick Smith. John Tubridy. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Ernest Henry Alton. Richard Anthony. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke.
 Hugh Colohan. Martin Conlan. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. Richard Corish. William T. Cosgrave. Sir James Craig. James Crowley. John Daly. William Davin. Michael Davis. Peter de Loughrey. James N. Dolan. Peader Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Barry M. Egan. Osmond Thos. Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. Denis J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. 
             Michael Brennan. Henry Broderick. Sean Brodrick. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. John James Cole. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll.
 Patrick Leonard. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Daniel Morrissey. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. Joseph Xavier Murphy. Timothy Joseph Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. Richard O'Connell. Thomas J. O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. Timothy Joseph O'Donovan. John F. O'Hanlon. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Patrick Reynolds. Martin Roddy. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork) William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. John White. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash; Ta: Deputies G. Boland and Allen. Nil: Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Original question put 
     The Dail divided: Ta, 80; Nil, 50. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Ernest Henry Alton. Richard Anthony. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Michael Brennan. Henry Broderick. Sean Brodrick. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. John James Cole. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Hugh Colohan. Martin Conlan. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. Richard Corish. William T. Cosgrave. Sir James Craig. James Crowley. John Daly. Michael Davis. Peter de Loughrey. James N. Dolan. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Barry M. Egan. Osmond Thos. Grattan Esmonde.
 Richard O'Connell. Thomas J. O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. Timothy Joseph O'Donovan. John F. O'Hanlon. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Patrick Reynolds. Martin Roddy. 
             Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. Denis J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Patrick Leonard. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Daniel Morrissey. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. Joseph Xavier Murphy. Timothy Joseph Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan.
 Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. John White. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe. Jasper Travers Wolfe.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. Denis Allen. Neal Blaney. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Alfred Byrne. Frank Carney. Frank Carty. Michael Clery. James Colbert. Eamon Cooney. Martin John Corry. Fred. Hugh Crowley. Tadhg Crowley. Thomas Derrig. Eamon de Valera. Frank Fahy. Hugo Flinn. Andrew Fogarty. Sean French. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. Sean Hayes. 
             Samuel Holt. Patrick Houlihan. William R. Kent. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killilea. Michael Kilroy. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben Maguire. Thomas McEllistrim. Sean MacEntee. Seamus Moore. Thomas Mullins. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Timothy Sheehy (Tipperary). Patrick Smith. John Tubridy. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward. 
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle. Nil: Deputies G. Boland and Allen. 
     Question declared carried. 
   
   
     PRIVATE DEPUTIES' BUSINESS. - REVIEW OF PRISONERS' CASES&mdash;PROPOSED SELECT COMMITTEE. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;That a Select Committee to be nominated by the Committee of Selection be set up forthwith with power to review the cases of all prisoners who claim that their cases arise out of the civil war or apart from strictly legal considerations have a political aspect and to recommend to the Executive Council the release of such prisoners.&rdquo; 
       We have not put down this motion suddenly, but because of every other method having failed.  This question of the prisoners was raised when the Executive Council were nominated.  It was raised on several other occasions in the Dail, and at another time a deputation from this side of the House waited on the Minister for Justice and put various cases before him.  Some of these cases&mdash;and I will briefly recite them&mdash;we contend, are of a purely political character.  As to others of them, we say that the sentences imposed were excessive, in so far as there was an acute political feeling in existence at the time, and that because certain people with the Republican point of view may have committed some offences which we cannot perhaps contend were purely political, that the sentences imposed on them were imposed by tribunals which felt they were carrying out the policy of the Executive, that is, a vendetta against all the people with Republican views in the country.  It was quite clear in some of the cases I refer to that at the time there was a political vendetta. 
     
     
        I cannot get any milder phrase to describe it.  I do not think any milder phrase would describe it accurately, at any rate.  We had it at the time when people prominent on the Government Benches were going round the country, talking about extermination and so on, and the wiping out of people who had certain political views; it was in that atmosphere that some of those sentences were imposed, and whatever may be said about the independence of the judiciary, and so on, the independent and impartial administration of law in this country&mdash;whatever may be mouthed about that&mdash;I think that anybody who thinks impartially or looks impartially at the position in the particular cases I have referred to will have no difficulty in coming to the conclusion that those sentences reflect a partisan spirit which is in keeping with what I call the vendetta that had been given voice to by prominent political leaders on the Government side during those times.  We put a number of cases before the Minister for Justice in our interview with him, and I do not think that there has been any result so far.  We put the facts clearly, as we were informed, and without any exaggeration, without any embellishments or anything else of that sort, and claimed, as a right, that those sentences should be reviewed.  That is what we ask in this House this evening: that the House should decide, in the light of the cases we will put before them, whether or not the Committee asked for in the motion should be set up to review those sentences.  It may be said that there are very few cases that would come under review.  I will cite just a few of them with reference to which I hope to be able to give some facts.  There are prisoners also, and I think it is relevant to mention it, in respect of whom, it might be urged at the moment, something should be done.  Those are prisoners detained in British jails and in, perhaps, the Northern jails also. There are some prisoners where, we contend, the offences were partly political.  Something should be done to have those cases inquired into or representations made with a view to having them dealt with. 
     The first case, I think, we put before   the Minister for justice in the interview was that of McPeake.  McPeake was arrested, I think, in November, 1923, and sentenced to six years' imprisonment. At the time of his arrest he was attached to the Republican Army.  He was charged with bringing an armoured car over to the Republicans. Now, I fail to see, in respect to his case, how anybody can contend that that was not a political offence, and why his case was excluded from the amnesty was something that requires explanation.  When the people on this side of the House get control of the reins of government I do not think they have any intention whatever of taking action against people who deserted from the Republican Army in the time of the trouble, and there were numerous desertions.  I think the main case against McPeake was that he had, according to the Government, deserted from the Free State Army.  A good portion of that sentence has been put in.  At any rate I will wait to see what case the Minister for Justice can put forward for the continuing of that sentence, or why he would not consider a review necessary. 
     There is the case of John Hogan, of Clare, which was also mentioned to the Minister for Justice.  It may be contended perhaps that his offence was not purely political, but the act which he committed was committed while he was on duty in the Republican Army. He was sentenced to death and it was afterwards communted to penal servitude for life. 
     There was the case of John Downey, of Galway, for raids on police barracks in 1922.  He was arrested in 1923 and sentenced to ten years penal servitude. There is Mat Hughes, arrested for the same offence in 1925 and sentenced to three years.  There is the case of Kavanagh, arrested in 1922 for a raid on a post office van and sentenced to seven years.  Now, as was explained by the deputation which waited on the Minister for Justice, Kavanagh was the victim of an agent provocateur named Hardy.  Hardy apparently arranged the raid, got this man Kavanagh to believe it was an official I.R.A. raid, and when he appeared at the post office, believing   Hardy was the party in authority, the party to receive instructions or orders from, he found he was confronted with members of the Free State Army, or C.I.D., and was arrested.  Another case is that of George Gilmore.  He was arrested on the 11th November, 1926, and sentenced to two years, and surely if there ever was a case in which there should be review it is this one, unless perhaps we can assume that the people on the other side of the House have so entirely changed the views that we believed they once held.  The principal charge against him was that he had dared to do a thing that I remember some people on the Government benches would applaud one time as a very good thing and a national thing to do: that was to dare to challenge the right of the Union Jack to float in this country. 
     
      
       It was not the charge. 
     
     
      
       He was not charged with it.  I understood he was. I believe he was.  I believe he was charged with interfering with a display of imperialism in the country which we feel, and a good many Irishmen feel, I hope the vast majority of them, is a challenge to the national instincts of the Irish people.  Since his sentence and imprisonment he has been, as was pointed out several times, shockingly ill-treated in jail; facts have been circulated with regard to the ill-treatment and facts have been brought to the notice of responsible authorities with regard to that ill-treatment.  The Minister is cognisant of this complaint and of the fact that visits are denied him and that facilities by which all the facts in connection with his ill-treatment could be elucidated.  There is the case of Sean Russell, who was arrested in November, 1927, and is still in prison under the Treason Act, and you have the case of Price, a similar offence, and the more recent case of Michael O'Carolan, who was arrested in February of the present year.  He may be guilty of an offence which may seem a very serious offence in the eyes of the people opposite, that when the gates were opened for him he walked out.  That   may appear to the Deputies on the Government Benches a very wrong thing to do, a very unusual thing to do, and a thing that perhaps a law-abiding citizen should not do.  However, that may be in keeping with the reasoning we will have in connection with all those cases.  There is the case of Stephen Murphy, and a number of other cases, but I do not propose to go into these cases in any detail.  I have mentioned, I think, sufficient to show that there are cases there which have a political tinge.  It will be stated, as I think it was hinted the other day by the President, that the courts are there, that the courts imposed the sentences, that the courts are supreme, and so on, but as I have already pointed out in this House, in the case of people who may have worn green in the Free State Army and who may have committed the most heinous offences, the courts are not supreme.  The decisions of the courts are interfered with, and the partisan administration shows its hand. I have quoted cases already in this House where the most heinous offences were committed by members of the Free State Army who were brought up before the Free State courts, charged and convicted and sentenced to death. Their sentences were commuted and they were released after a few months or a few years.  I will quote them again. I quoted the case of Lieutenant Larkin of the Free State Army who was charged and convicted of the murder of an old man.  He was sentenced to eight years penal servitude, and he was released after eighteen months.  There was the case of Lieutenant Greene, who was convicted of the murder of a prisoner and sentenced to death.  His sentence was commuted to fifteen years penal servitude, and he was released after two years. 
     
     There was the case of Private Gordan, who was convicted of murder.  He was sentenced to death.  His sentence was commuted to penal servitude of fifteen years, and he was let out after two years.  There was a case of Lieutenant McQuaid, who was convicted of murder and who was let out after two years.  There was the case of Lieutenant McNally, who was sentenced to seven years and who was let out after two years.  There was the case of   Sergeant-Major Kiernan, who was convicted of attempted murder and sentenced to ten years' imprisonment.  I believe that a petition was got up by some political associates of his, and that there was a reply sent to them that the matter would be most favourably considered. 
     We saw the other day in the courts where an individual who was held up to be a truthful witness had been sentenced to twelve years for bank robbery or something like that and had been let go.  This House was not informed with regard to the mitigation of the sentences that were imposed on those people I have referred to.  This House was not consulted with regard to them.  As a Deputy on the Labour Benches stated when I referred to those cases before, that was the first time they heard them mentioned in the House.  The Government cannot have it both ways.  They cannot say with one breath &ldquo;The courts are supreme, the law is impartially administered, and we cannot interfere with decisions of the courts,&rdquo; and in the next breath say something different in regard to people of Republican tendencies.  They cannot say in the case of people who may have worn green in the Free State Army that they can be convicted by these independent courts, by this impartial administration, and that they can afterwards, without consulting the Dail or letting out the information to the people, be released.  They cannot say that they are relying on the independence of the courts in releasing these people before their sentences are completed.  What does it reflect, but what was criticised for centuries in this country, the partisan administration of the law.  There is no other answer to it.  It is the obvious answer. There is one law for one section of the community and another law for another section of the community. There are the facts.  I have given you the facts in particular cases.  I have not made any wild statements.  I hope it will be explained why a man who had taken away an armoured car, which was purely a political offence, was excluded from the Amnesty Act, and why his whole sentence has to be served, while men who had been convicted of murder came under it.  There   is a licence for murder on the one hand and there is no mitigation or no consideration for political offences on the other hand. 
     The motion that we have put in is a reasonable one.  If the Government want to face this question in the light that they have nothing to keep away from the Dail, in the light that they have nothing to keep secret, then no harm will be done, as far as they are concerned, by setting up the Committee which is asked for in that motion. 
     A matter that has often been complained of is that the present system of visiting and inspection of prisons does not afford to this side of the House facilities for seeing the condition of things there.  It is something to complain about, and if at some time or another inaccurate statements come into circulation the blame cannot be put on those people who may have accepted those statements and in that way may be unconsciously responsible for their circulation. If the Government have nothing to keep from the view of this House with regard to the ill-treatment of prisoners they should accept this motion. We say they have been ill-treated. We say that in the case of George Gilmore there has been ill-treatment unequalled even in an uncivilised country. We make that statement, and if the Ministry opposite deny it there is a simple way of getting at the facts.  The way of getting at the facts is to set up this Committee or to allow a Committee of this House to visit the prison or hold an inquiry with regard to the ill-treatment that is going on there. 
     
      
       That is not proposed by the motion. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry.  I do not usually digress.  The same thing applies to the prisoners who have been sentenced.  We charge in this motion that because certain prisoners had a certain political outlook or a certain political tendency they are undergoing sentences altogether out of proportion with the sentences that would have been proposed if they had not that outlook and that viewpoint. 
     
     I think that when that statement is made in the House, and when we give the facts about it, it should not be a   question with the Ministry of making this a Party vote.  They should face it in the spirit which any Ministry should face any charges that may be levied against any part of their administration. If there is any suspicion, and if there are any facts on which to ground the suspicion put forward, then the case which the Ministry should make would be: &ldquo;We have nothing to keep from this House.  We will allow an impartial committee to inquire into these particular cases.&rdquo;  We are only asking that that committee be selected by the Selection Committee.  We know, if Party lines are followed, that that committee will consist of a majority of members of the Government Party. The committee which we ask for under this motion is one with which, in my opinion, the Minister for Justice and the Ministry generally, could not quarrel. We are only asking that these particular cases or others in which prisoners may put forward a claim that their offences are political, or that the sentences they are undergoing were made more severe than they otherwise would be made on account of their political views, should be considered.  That is all we ask.  We think it is a reasonable motion, and, unless the Government want to keep along the lines of bitterness or to continue a political vendetta, they should agree to it. 
     
      
       Would the Deputy say how many Deputies he would like to see nominated on the committee?  Technically, the motion should contain the number. 
     
     
      
       Eight Deputies. 
     
     
      
       Sa bhfogra tairiscinte seo i dtaoibh na ngeimhleach, nilmid ag iarraidh ar an nDail aon nidh mi-reasunta a dheanamh&mdash;an sceal fhagaint fen gCoiste Roghnathoireachta fo-choiste a chur ar bun chun cuiseanna na bpriosunach a bhreithniu: se sin, na cuiseanna go bhfuil baint acu le cursai polaitiochta.  Do feadfai an meid sin a dheanamh go ciuin ciallmhar gan teasuiocht, gan gangaid, gan aghaidh bheil a thabhairt ar a cheile. 
     
     Is minic a bhionn tracht ar staid na bpriosunach san, ar a fheabhas ata an   saoghal acu.  Deirtear linn go bhfuil togha gach bidh agus rogha gach dighe acu.  Ta Teachtai ar an da thaobh annseo a thug treimhse i mbraighdeanas agus ta fhios acu go maith gurab e bun agus barr pionos an bhraighdeanais na bheith fe glasaibh agus gan cead a chos ag duine.  Is uathbhasach an rud e saoirse a bhaint de dhuine. 
     Dearfar linn go bhfuil an dlighe ann agus nach mor bheith umhal di. Ta san go maith, ach ba mhaith liom a chur i gcuimhne do na Teachtai a mhishuaimhnighe agus a nimhnighe a bhi cursai an tsaoghail sa tir seo nuair a ceapadh cuid de na dlighthe sin.  Ni raibh le clos sa Dail seo acht taobh amhain den sceal agus bionn, ar a laighead, dha innsint ar gach sceal. 
     Chuala sibh rud beag ar an dtaoibh eile an tseachtain seo caithe, agus ba dhoigh le duine o chainnt an Uachtarain go bhfuil maolu eigin ag teacht ar an nimhneacht, agus ar an searbhas. Ta suil agam go bhfuil agus ma ta na Teachtai os ar gcomhair annsin dariribh ta caoi acu sa tairscint.  Ce an fath a bhfuil na h'oganaigh sin i bpriosuin? Maidir le n-a bhformhor, d'fheadfainn a radh go bhfuilid i mbraighdeanas toisc gur leanadar go dluth soisceal na saoirse a dheineadar a fhogluim ni hamhain uainne ach o Airi agus o Theachtai ar thaobh Chumann na nGaedheal. 
     Da gcuirfi ar bun an Coiste seo racadh se chun tairbhe na tire.  Ni ga baint a bheith ag na hAodhruidhe leis an sceul.  Iarraim ar na Teachtai agus iarraim ar na hAiri glacadh leis an tairiscint seo, mar dheunfaidh se maitheas do'n tir gan dochar do dheunamh d'einne. 
     
      
       I welcome this motion which has been brought before the House by Deputy Ruttledge and Deputy Aiken.  I welcome it because, of all the unfair political propaganda which has gone on in this country against the administration of Justice, there has been no more unfair political propaganda than the false statements which have been made on platforms, which have been posted up on the walls of the city, and which, to a certain extent, have been heard inside this   House.  I welcome, therefore, this opportunity to have this matter of the so-called political prisoners debated face to face so that the country itself can judge.  Deputy Ruttledge has proposed that a Committee should be set up.  In order to carry his motion in this House I take it, that it will be assumed that he must show there is some need of such Committee, that there are prisoners coming under the category to which he has alluded, and that those prisoners have been unjustly or unfairly sentenced, though, as a matter of fact, the question of sentence does not enter into this motion at all.  He must, in addition, show that the tribunal which he proposes to set up is suitable for the trial of these questions. 
       I will follow Deputy Ruttledge through his speech.  It is correct that he and some other delegates of his Party had an interview with me upon this question and named certain prisoners, some of whom they claimed to be political prisoners.  With all of these he has not dealt to-day.  He has put forward certain names, and I will deal with the facts of each particular case he has put forward, both as to sentence and the nature of the crime, and also the date of the crime for which the person in question was convicted.  I will then follow him all through the charges which he makes against the Executive Council for letting out certain men who had been convicted of crime during the Amnesty period and the period subsequently covered by the Amnesty. Deputy Ruttledge has used strong and unmeasured language, and has made wild charges which, I think, he himself on cool reflection would hardly stand over&mdash;charges, for instance, that there is a licence to murder on one side, and other statements of that nature&mdash;which, I think, good feeling, good sense, and a sense of his duty to his constituents and to this House will cause him to withdraw.  I will deal first of all with the prisoners in the order in which he has set them out. 
     
     The first prisoner to whom he alluded is John McPeake, who has been put in the forefront.  The Deputy's whole case centred round McPeake.  If you take McPeake and Gilmore out, the others were names over which the Deputy seemed in a great hurry to   rush.  McPeake was a soldier in the National Army and was also a machine-gunner, but he deserted and took over to the then enemies of the National Army, men who were in arms against them, an armoured car for the purpose of that car being used in action against the men who up to that time had been his comrades.  Is that a light offence? Does Deputy Ruttledge suggest that is a light offence&mdash;suddenly turning and bringing over an armoured car that might be used against his own comrades? McPeake was a deserter from the National Army.  I do not assent, and I never will, to the proposition that a man of that nature can be termed correctly a political prisoner.  McPeake was sentenced to six years' imprisonment, and his term will not expire until next July, but I, using my judgement, can see no reason for anybody coming to the conclusion that that sentence upon McPeake was excessive. 
     The next case to which Deputy Ruttledge alluded was that of John Hogan, and he says John Hogan's offence was not purely political.  What were the facts with regard to that case? John Hogan was armed, and he met a man with whose family Hogan's family were on extremely bad terms.  They had a row about a right of way or something of that kind.  Hogan was tried before a jury and was found guilty of murder, principally upon the dying declaration of the man whom he had murdered.  There was nothing political about it.  A man coming along a fence, a man whom he knows, a near neighbour, is told by Hogan to hold up his hands.  The man says: &ldquo;I will not hold up my hands for you.&rdquo;  He is shot dead.  Is that a political offence?  Do the Party opposite think a case like that is political?  Is it their view and doctrine that if you belong to a certain political party you can commit any crime you like?  How else can they suggest that an ordinary case of a man shooting his enemy, shooting a person he dislikes, and so found by a jury, is a political case?  Hogan was duly sentenced. The time at which this occurred was duly taken into consideration, and the death sentence was not carried out, as it might have been, there being a clear case of murder found by the jury. The defence was &ldquo;accident.&rdquo;  The jury   negatived it by their verdict.  The sentence was commuted to penal servitude for life. 
     Deputy Ruttledge went on, and the next men he mentioned were John Downey and Hughes.  Downey was sentenced for shooting a man called Larkin.  Deputy Ruttledge has been misinformed as to the facts of that case, as he has been misinformed, I will show the House, on a great number of other matters.  This man Downey has been very well conducted in prison, and is showing signs that he may subsequently turn out to be a law-abiding citizen, and his case may be, I do not say will be, in the immediate future revised. Hughes was an ordinary man who in 1926 went around the country attacking and robbing.  He was sentenced to three years for armed assault, robbery, and breaking and entering a farmhouse. He received that sentence of three years for a crime committed in 1926.  How is he a political prisoner? What is there political in his case? How does that savour of politics?  Is there any responsible member of this House who will stand up in his place here and say that armed assault, robbery, and breaking and entering a dwelling-house for the purpose of robbery, is a political offence?  Yet, here is Hughes, one of the men&mdash;&mdash; 
     
      
       On a point of order, may I ask if the robbery was committed in 1926? 
     
     
      
       Some time in 1926.  I cannot give the exact date at the moment. 
     
     
      
       Is it a fact that he was only tried in 1926 for an offence committed in 1922? 
     
     
      
       He was tried in 1926&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       For an offence committed in 1922. 
     
     
      
       In 1922 he started his career, but the exact date of the offence, I understand, was 1926.  He had been at this for a very considerable time. 
     
     
     
      
       The statements of the Minister are inaccurate. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is at sea. 
     
     
      
       The offence, as a matter of fact, was committed not in 1922 but in 1923. 
     
     
      
       That is three years of a mistake that the Minister has made. That is not much at all. 
     
     
      
       That was after the amnesty.  A person named Kavanagh was mentioned. Kavanagh was sentenced to seven years' penal servitude for robbery at Santry Post Office in 1922.  It was stated by Deputy Ruttledge&mdash;I do not know what his authority was for the statement; it certainly did not appear anywhere in the trial&mdash;that a man called Hardy was particeps criminis, or that a man called Hardy acted as agent provocateur.  There is no truth in that statement.  This Government has never at any time, and the persons who are responsible for the administration of justice in this country have never at any time, allowed or would allow such a person as an agent provocateur to act. 
     
     
      
       What about Harling? 
     
     
      
       And any statement that they have&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       What about Harling? 
     
     
      
       What about the £10,000 a year for Secret Service? 
     
     
      
       That matter is sub-judice at the present moment. 
     
     
      
       Are you not paying £10,000 a year for Secret Service? 
     
     
      
       I do not want to discuss that.  But I say now, clearly and definitely, that there is absolutely no truth or foundation for the statement that he was at any time an agent provocateur, and not the loudest explosions from the most backward of the back benchers will change that. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister deny that Hardy was an agent provocateur during 1924? 
     
     
     
      
       Yes, I do deny it. 
     
     
      
       And will he explain how he came to be released almost immediately after the Portobello robbery? 
     
     
      
       Yes, I will explain it.  It is one of the cases that Deputy Ruttledge mentioned, and one of the cases with which I wanted to deal.  I can show, without any trouble, that Hardy's case was a case of mistaken identity.  Deputies think they can change facts by laughter.  Facts, unfortunately, are stubborn things, and I am afraid they are too stubborn to be bent by the loudest laughter, even of Deputy MacEntee himself. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister tell the House if it is a fact that a certain person stole a typewriter and has admitted that he stole a typewriter? 
     
     
      
       As far as Kavanagh was concerned no person called Hardy was examined at the trial or mentioned at the trial. But the case of this man Kavanagh having occurred in 1922, Kavanagh was, as a matter of fact, released on licence, but he did not carry out the terms of his licence.  Instead of conducting himself as a law-abiding citizen he took a completely different course, and his licence was in consequence revoked. 
     
     
      
       He put up election posters. 
     
     
      
       It must be understood that when licences are given to men who have been sentenced, when the prerogative of mercy is exercised in favour of these men, they must conduct themselves as law-abiding citizens or else they must serve their sentences.  The next case&mdash;there were not very many of them that my friend dealt with&mdash;is the case of George Gilmore.  My friend, Deputy Ruttledge, of course, though it has been contradicted again and again, came forth with that old, old story that he was sentenced to two years for challenging the right of people to flaunt Union Jacks in the City of Dublin.   Of course that is all wrong&mdash;the sentence is completely wrong.  The Deputy has mistaken the crimes for which he was convicted.  Gilmore was tried on five counts.  He was tried and convicted on a count for which he was sentenced to eighteen months imprisonment. That was, under arms effecting the escape of prisoners from Mountjoy.  And if you consider the gravity of the offence I do not see how anybody could say that that term of imprisonment was unduly heavy.  He was charged also with assaulting a warder on the same occasion and was found guilty.  He was charged also that on a subsequent date&mdash;Armistice Day celebrations in this city&mdash;he assaulted two Guards, and he was convicted. These were the four charges upon which he was convicted, and the only four.  He was sentenced to eighteen months' imprisonment on the one charge; he was sentenced to six months imprisonment upon each of the other charges on which he was convicted, all sentences to run concurrently. The period of six months for the first three charges has now expired. The period of eighteen months is the sentence which he is serving, and that sentence will not expire until next June.  He was also charged upon the same occasion with riot and with unlawful wounding.  He was charged with riot because walking in the procession were certain ex-British soldiers wearing small Union Jacks and poppies.  He tore out of the lapels of their coats the poppies and the Union Jacks, and that is the whole foundation of the Deputy's statement that he was charged for challenging the right to flaunt the Union Jack.  And yet even upon that count, the count of riot, he was not convicted; the jury disagreed.  Upon the other charge, the charge of stabbing one of these ex-soldiers in the shoulder, though a dagger was found in his possession, the jury also disagreed.  So now let it be known; Deputies must know it, and I hope we will never in this House have that fable repeated again, which has been repeated so often, that Gilmore is serving a term of imprisonment for challenging the flaunting of the Union Jack in Dublin. 
     
     
      
       It is a fact, though. 
     
     
     
      
       He is serving a term of imprisonment at the present moment under somewhat curious circumstances.  He effected from Mountjoy, under arms, the escape of prisoners.  That is the term of imprisonment that is now being carried out on him, and never at any time was he suffering imprisonment for this attempted riot on the question of the Union Jacks.  Another statement was made by Deputy Ruttledge, and here his language became most extraordinarily strong.  He declared that cruelty was being practised upon Gilmore in Mountjoy. 
     
     
      
       So there was. 
     
     
      
       That statement is untrue. 
     
     
      
       So there was. 
     
     
      
       That statement has no foundation. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister allow an indepenlent investigation? 
     
     
      
       That statement, I say, is without any foundation. Never was there a single act of cruelty on that man at any time since he has been in Mountjoy. 
     
     
      
       There was. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy, of course, thinks he knows all. Might I ask the source of the Deputy's information? 
     
     
      
       The Minister took good care to keep any opportunity of investigating it from the public. 
     
     
      
       The question of the treatment of prisoners is not raised by this motion at all. Deputy Ruttledge just touched upon it, and the Minister touched upon it, too.  The question in the motion is a different question altogether, and surely the more calmly we can discuss it the better for the prisoners. 
     
     
      
       The prisoners do not count. 
     
     
      
       That is your opinion. 
     
     
     
      
       You are only using them. 
     
     
      
       I will leave the question of Gilmore and come on to the other names that the Deputy mentioned.  They are entirely irrelevant to the subject of this motion, because the motion is to review the cases of all prisoners.  These men, Russell and Price, are not prisoners.  Russell and Price are charged with offences. They were brought before a court the other day.  The question was as to whether these gentlemen were mute of malice or mute by the act of God, and the jury failed to agree. 
     
     
      
       Are they in jail or are they only visitors? 
       Further interruptions. 
     
     
      
       I am not going to give Deputy Corry any further opportunity of interrupting.  I am getting a little tired of Deputy MacEntee with regard to the Judges.  He continues deliberately to break the rules of the House, which he knows.  The Deputy knows what he is doing.  He really ought not to do it. 
     
     
      
       These two men were brought forward for trial.  The trial proved abortive.  They must only wait until they are tried again.  They are not prisoners. 
     
     
      
       They are only in prison. 
     
     
      
       They are not prisoners in the proper sense of the word.  Deputies always think that arguments can be answered by laughter. 
     
     
      
       We know the proper and improper sense of that word. 
     
     
      
       We know that is the best argument you could put forward. 
     
     
      
       You should send them over to visit their friends in America. 
     
     
      
       That is brilliant.  I did not think Deputy Smith would be capable of such a magnificently brilliant remark.  I am sure he has raised himself for all time in   the opinion of the House by his magnificent humour.  I have dealt with the names that Deputy Ruttledge mentioned. These were the only few cases on which the Deputy based his suggestion that a committee should be set up. I submit to this House that a weaker case could not be put forward.  All he could summon up was five or six men. Not one of them can be said to have ever been sentenced.  These are the men whose cases the Deputy brings up here.  How they are called &ldquo;political&rdquo; passes my comprehension.  Deputy Ruttledge did not stop there, but went a great deal further.  He made charges of partial administration of the law, but gave no instances.  He also reiterated charges which he made here earlier.  I am glad he has done so, because I am in a position to explain to the House the cases he referred to.  I would like to recall to the memory of the House that in November, 1924, an amnesty resolution was passed in the Dail.  That was an amnesty for all criminal acts committed, or alleged to have been committed, between the 6th of December, 1921, and the 12th day of May, 1923.  Under that amnesty a huge number of people were liberated from internment camps.  A great number of prisoners whose acts arose out of the war were amnestied.  I have a list of some of them here. 
     
     
      
       Is McPeake amongst them? 
     
     
      
       He was not, but there were many others. I will not read out the names unless the House wishes to have them.  Here is a case of three years' penal servitude. Lennon is the name.  He was sentenced on the 4th July, 1924, and released in November, 1924; Kyne, sentenced to ten years' penal servitude on the 9th of July, 1924, and released in November, 1924; Fitzsimons, sentenced to twelve months' hard labour in July, 1924, and released in November, 1924; Cooke, sentenced July, 1924, to 18 months' hard labour, and released November, 1924. 
     
     
      
       What were the offences for which they were sentenced? 
     
     
      
       Certain   robberies and raids for goods. Lennon was charged with the robbery of a bank at Bagnalstown.  He was sentenced to three years' penal servitude, of which he only served from July to November.  John Morrissey, charged with robbery by force from a postman, was sentenced to two years' imprisonment on 27th October, 1924, and served until 26th November, 1924.  Trainor was charged with the robbery of a bank at Monaghan and sentenced to five years' penal servitude.  He served from July, 1924, to February, 1925.  I could go through a long list, but I do not want to weary the House.  I think I have quoted sufficient to show that men whose views and actions have been hostile and inimical to the State were released from prison when the amnesty was passed.  I may also remind the House that a special court was set up by statute to consider the sentences which had been passed by courts-martial. I will now deal with the specific cases to which Deputy Ruttledge has alluded. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Minister for an explanation before he reads any further.  He referred to four distinct cases of men sentenced for offences and released as a result of the Amnesty Act of 1924.  I understood the Minister to say that the Amnesty Act covered offences in the period up to 1923, and that the offences of these four men whose names he read were committed subsequent to the passing of that Act, or, at least, in 1924. 
     
     
      
       They were committed after May, 1923, with the exception of McPeake. 
     
     
      
       So that the acts were committed subsequent to the Act? 
     
     
      
       Subsequent to 1923.  There was no Indemnity Act.  This is the Indemnity Resolution passed by the Dail, under the terms of which the prisoners were released.  In addition, there was a special statute by which a court was set up to investigate the cases of men who had been tried by military courts. 
     
     I might also say that there was a great number of men in prison at the time awaiting trial who were released.   There was also a great number of men who were awaiting trial on bail, and in whose cases a nolle prosequi was entered.  That means that the proceedings against them were dropped.  In 1923 a wiping of the slate clear was made as far as possible. 
     
      
       In justice to the men whose names were read out, might I say that the Minister's information is not correct.  The offences were committed in 1922.  I know that of personal knowledge.  It is a fact in the case of Seamus Lennon. 
     
     
      
       Certainly. 
     
     
      
       In the case of Seamus Lennon, he could go to the manager of a bank and get a thousand pounds on his signature. 
     
     
      
       I read out the names of those who were amnestied under the Amnesty Resolution because their offences were committed before 1923.  I hope that I have made myself clear to the Deputy.  As to the names which Deputy Ruttledge read out, with the exception of McPeake, they were all offences committed after that date. 
     
     
      
       You admitted to the House 1922. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Ruttledge started off with the case of Lieutenant Larkin and said he was convicted of the murder of an old man and sentenced to eight years' imprisonment.  Larkin was not convicted of murder, but of manslaughter. He was sentenced to eight years' penal servitude.  His was one of the cases which fell under the Amnesty Resolution.  The Deputy said, as regards the case of Lieutenant Green, that he was convicted of murder, and after being sentenced to death had his sentence commuted to fifteen years' penal servitude.  The Deputy said &ldquo;of course he was let out after two years.&rdquo; As a matter of fact, Green's sentence was reviewed under the Indemnity Act of 1923 and on the order of the Judges who constituted the court he was discharged from prison in 1924.  So it was   on the order of that court under the Indemnity Act of 1923, and not by any action of the Executive Council, that he was released. 
       The next case the Deputy mentions was that of Private Gordon.  He says that Private Gordon was convicted of murder and sentenced to death, that his sentence was commuted to penal servitude for fifteen years, and that he was let out after two years.  As a matter of fact Gordon was convicted of murder. He was sentenced to death, but it was commuted by the Commissioners appointed under the Indemnity Act of 1923.  They recommended a reduction of the sentence to three years' penal servitude which the prisoner duly served and was then discharged from prison.  Gordon was a sergeant in the National Army.  He had a quarrel with a fellow sergeant and shot him dead. Gordon really wanted to frighten his fellow sergeant, and in pointing a revolver was not aware that it was loaded.  It was the Commissioners appointed under the Indemnity Act who, in fact, commuted his sentence to one of three years which he served. The Deputy said that Lieutenant McQuaid of the Free State Army was similarly convicted.  The Deputy means, I suppose, similarly convicted of murder. He also referred to the cases of Lieutenant McNally and Sergeant-Major Kiernan.  McQuaid, McNally and Kiernan were not convicted of murder, but of conspiracy to murder and for endeavouring to carry out that conspiracy.  McQuaid served two years and two months.  The offence was committed in 1922.  He did not fire a shot.  Francis McNally was convicted of the same offence.  He was sentenced to seven years, and released under the prerogative of mercy on the 23rd December, 1925. 
       Kiernan was released after serving three years and two months.  These were not cases of murder, but cases of attempted murder and of conspiracy to murder.  The offences were committed during a very disturbed time in the country.  All these men served substantial terms of imprisonment and to say that that was giving a licence to commit murder appears to be rather extravagant speech. 
     
     I come now to the Deputy's other   case, that of Hardy, who was convicted of robbery under arms.  He was sentenced to seven years imprisonment on the 18th November, 1924.  He was released on the 18th of June, 1926, having served a term of one year and seven months.  Hardy was regarded by the State as being a ring-leader in the holdup at Portobello, but later on it appeared that the sum of money stolen was found upon another person who bore a very strong resemblance to Hardy.  It appears quite possible, rather probable, that in Hardy's case there was a mistake of identity.  Now if there were reasonable grounds for thinking that a mistake in identity had been made, it would have been entirely wrong of the Executive Council at that time not to act upon that probability that a mistake had been made. 
     I need not go into the facts of the various cases.  Deputy Ruttledge at no time, in the course of his speech was kind enough to mention any of the sources of his information.  I think I have already shown that in a great number of cases his information is entirely inaccurate.  He is mistaken in thinking that this man Hardy was an agent provocateur.  I would like very much to know the evidence on which that statement rests.  After all, the name of the man has been mentioned in this House.  I take it that the Deputy who mentioned the name considers that he has a public duty not to make such charges lightly.  I heard a mere statement by Deputy Ruttledge, but I did not hear any suggestion by him as to the nature of the evidence on which he made the statement. 
     
      
       We will give the information later on. 
     
     
      
       I now move the adjournment of the debate. 
       Debate adjourned. 
     
   
   
     ADJOURNMENT DEBATE. - PAYMENT OF DISMISSED TEACHERS. 
     
      
       Deputy Fahy has given notice of a question to be raised on the adjournment, arising   out of the answer to question 17 on the Order Paper. 
     
     
      
       Bainnean se leo le ceist a seacht deag.  Bhi na muinteoiri ag obair ins na scoileanna ar feadh no haimsire seo. Thainig na cigiri scoile chun na scoileanna agus bhiodar sasta leis an obair a bhi 'ga dheanamh ionta. 
     
     
      
       Speak English. 
     
     
      
       Iarrtar orm labhairt i mBearla.  Dheanfaidh me sin, mar ba mhaith liom go dtuigfeadh Aire an Oideachais an meid ata agam le ra. 
       In question No. 17, I do not think that the request was unreasonable. That is that the Department of Education should pay the teachers who were dismissed for political reasons, and to whose restoration to schools, where they can secure appointments, the Minister for Education recently consented.  Such teachers, many of whom had been working in the schools after sanction had been withdrawn, should be paid for the actual time they were teaching.  Their classes were inspected and I suppose there was no adverse report from the inspectors. The Minister gave an emphatic &ldquo;No,&rdquo; and said: &ldquo;They will not be paid.&rdquo; I think in justice that they should, and I do not raise this matter as a Party question at all.  A few days ago we had a debate, and the President said that it served no useful purpose to be raking up the past, that we should try and work in a better spirit together.  Unfortunately the Minister for Education was absent from the House when that appeal was made.  I do not know whether he agrees with it or not, but I say that it is raking up the past if you still keep inflicting such injustice on people and not pay them for work they actually did&mdash;men from whom sanction had been removed for political reasons. It is decidedly raking up the past if we refuse to pay them for the work they actually did. 
     
     I see the Minister for Education is heavily briefed.  I have just a few short cases to put before him.  There is the case of Sean Scully, Curraghbeg National School, Glencar, Co. Kerry.   He taught as assistant in that school from the beginning of 1924 to the autumn of 1926.  The Principal then died.  From the date of his recognition by the Education Office recently, he has taught alone.  He is now Principal with an assistant, and he has not been paid for the years he was teaching without sanction.  He is now sanctioned as Principal.  Another case is the case of Humphrey Murphy, Kilsarcon National School, Currow.  He taught as assistant from the end of 1923 up to the present date in that school.  His work has apparently been satisfactory.  He has not been paid for it.  Then there is the case of Seamus Connor, Kildreelig National School, Ballinskelligs.  He taught as Principal of that school from the autumn of 1923 till the autumn of 1926. From then till the date of the removal of the ban or the recognition by the Education Office, he has been idle.  The school has since been without a teacher and is closed.  He is now assistant to Sean Scully. 
     There is another case, which perhaps is not quite on a par with those I have mentioned, but I might be allowed to refer to it.  It is the case of Tomas O Maolin, who is teaching in a city school.  Such teachers get annual increments of £12 less 10 per cent.  He was entitled to seven such increments. He resigned on 31st March, 1921, to take up active service in the I.R.A.  He was arrested and interned while on active service.  National teachers who were arrested in their schools or coming from their schools for political reasons and were interned got increments of salary.  This man has got neither increment nor salary.  I think, in justice and apart from all questions of politics, he should get his increments, the increments that would naturally come to him at least up to the start of the civil war. Assurances were given in 1922 that this anomaly would be rectified, but it has not been rectified yet.  In the other cases the teachers were recognised by the managers.  The managers in most cases are clergy.  I believe.  The managers believe that they are fit men to keep in the schools and to educate the young.  They know the local circumstances. Many of the managers in question have the same political tenets as the   Minister for Education.  I put it to the House that these local managers were as good judges as the officials in Dublin as to the fitness of such teachers to continue their services in the schools.  In fair play, in ordinary justice the men should be paid for the time they worked.  Inspectors visited the schools, and I know personally that they were quite satisfied with several of them.  I as not sure of all.  I do not know how many teachers are concerned, but I ask, without looking at it from a Party point of view, that the Minister should, in the interests of the country, in the interests of peace, and in common justice, give to these teachers the salaries which they have earned. 
     
      
       I do not presume to know very much about this matter, but a few cases have been brought under my notice.  I would like to support the appeal made by Deputy Fahy. I think I can say that when the Government went so far as to recognise those men after a certain number of years and to give them the right to go on teaching under official recognition, they might have gone the whole way.  No matter what complexion the Minister or the Government may try to put on it, people will think that those men are still being penalised and that the Government of the day is going to go on penalising them for what happened in the past.  I think that is a wrong policy.  I think, as has been already stated in the House, we should try to wipe the slate clean and that the men should not be allowed to go on thinking that they have been badly treated. I suggest to the Minister that from those of them who have got schools and go on teaching, you are not going to get the very best service if they feel that they have been badly treated, and have a grievance against the State.  There is not a very large number of teachers involved in this matter and the cost in actual money to the State would be almost negligible.  It seems to me that in the interests of harmony, of trying to bring about a better feeling in the country and in order to get the best possible service from those men, the Government would be well advised to give them all the money to which they are entitled.  It may be said that they have   taken certain action against the State and that they did wrong.  Many people in this country did wrong since 1922, and perhaps before 1922.  I think myself that the best interests of all would be met if the Government were prepared to go the whole way in this matter and if the Minister were prepared to accede to this request put forward, if I might say so, reasonably and clearly by Deputy Fahy. 
     
     
      
       I happen to know one case in Cork County somewhat similar to those of which Deputy Fahy has spoken.  The particular teacher was a man when men were wanted.  He was one of the best men prior to 1922.  That being so, we ought to try to throw oil on the troubled waters, and I appeal to the Minister to use his good judgment in reconsidering all those cases. 
     
     
      
       I do not know what particular case Deputy Carey has in mind.  There are some cases in Cork. There is one particularly, and, perhaps, it is the case that he refers to.  I think it is a case that some of us are familiar with.  It is really a case in which the Department should have dealt with the teacher in a disciplinary way without bringing the matter before this Committee at all, apart altogether from any connection with armed revolt or anything else.  As regards the general question, even before its last action, even before the matter was discussed on other occasions, the Government's feelings were that it had acted with extreme generosity towards those teachers.  I explained what the situation was.  It is a matter that was brought up on more than one occasion in this House.  It was brought up specially before the Government and myself by the Executive of the National Teachers' Organisation.  We pointed out that, so far as the Department was concerned at the time, we were quite ready to overlook that.  The plea then was that the teachers should be recognised. What is the plea to-day?  The plea then was for a clean slate and for the restoration of the teachers.  Well, these teachers have been given recognition again as national teachers.  I would point out that the teachers have   been treated much more leniently than any of the ordinary civil servants of the State; that they had got much more favoured treatment than had been meted out to civil servants in similar circumstances, and the cases have been thoroughly heard.  Wherever there was the slightest chance of weighing the balance in favour of the teacher it was done as I have pointed out already. Not only that, but we have again and again reconsidered cases to see whether there was left of those still remaining a certain number to whom recognition might be granted.  That was done. Then, finally&mdash;I think a short time ago &mdash;a national teachers' deputation again put before me the advisability of taking advantage of the changed political situation and recognising these teachers.  I think there was a reply given last October to Deputy O'Connell that the Government was prepared to do that.  Let us be quite clear as to the position of the Government.  First of all, we do not employ the teachers. We do not pretend to pay everybody that teaches in this country.  That is quite clear.  They are not our employees. It is quite true to say we pay them, but they are employed by the managers.  We make it abundantly clear&mdash;so that nobody could say that there was any haste, so far as these teachers were concerned&mdash;that recognition would be withdrawn from them after a certain date, the 30th April, 1925.  It was quite true that a number of them kept on teaching in the schools. That was not due to any misunderstanding between them and the Government.  The Government could not dismiss them from the schools. That is quite clear.  Where that was possible, where the teachers were under the direct employment of the Government, as in the Model Schools, their services were dispensed with.  In the case of the ordinary national schools in the country such a course could not be adopted.  The only course was the one adopted by the Government, namely, that they would withdraw the salaries from the teachers. That course of action was intimated to the teachers and it was intimated to the managers.  That was quite clear. Had they been in the position of teachers in the Model Schools, had they   been in the position of the ordinary civil servants, this plea that is now made could not have been made.  It is precisely because they are not our employees, in the strict sense of the word, that they were able, despite very clear warning on our part, to stay on in the schools.  I quite admit that they were not our employees, and the phrase that they stayed on in defiance of the Government might not be quite strictly correct, but if I use that phrase it will not, I think, lead to any misconception. The teachers stayed on, and I do not see what case can be made for paying the teachers who stayed on after the full warning.  If the teacher stayed on as a result of a private arrangement between himself and his direct employers, I do not see how the State is involved in that matter. 
     
     
      
       Were the schools not inspected? 
     
     
      
       What has that to do with it?  We inspect schools at present in which there are teachers we do not pay.  Does the Deputy suggest that we gave them the slightest hint that we would pay them?  I do not think anybody in this House who has followed the debate for the last couple of years could be under any misconception as to our attitude.  Whatever else may be said about it, our attitude was clearly defined.  Remember, it is not a case of ordinary amnesty.  That is not the position and never was.  It was not a case of granting pardon to anybody guilty of offences against the State. That was not the case put forward for the teachers; they were not being punished in that way.  What was asked for was that they should not be pardoned for activities against the State, but that they should be paid by the State, even though the Government of the State was convinced that their future loyalty was certainly something that could not be relied on. 
     
     As far as the bulk of the cases we are now dealing with is concerned, if we did allow back teachers in a number of cases, they were not allowed back on the merits, but altogether owing to the improved political situation, the improved conditions of the country that existed in the fall of 1927.   If the other teachers stayed on, that was a matter for themselves.  They took that risk and there was no obligation on the Government to pay them. There are plenty of teachers in the country not recognised by the Government, and there was no obligation to pay the teachers in question any more than the Government pays the teachers it does not recognise.  Anybody connected, directly or indirectly, with national teachers in the country knows perfectly well it is not an unusual thing for teachers to stay on.  Apart from the question as to why particular teachers were dispensed with, so far as we could dispense with them, it is not an unusual thing for teachers to stay on after the Department of Education has clearly and definitely warned them that salary would not be paid after a certain date.  They stayed on, and it is not an uncommon practice.  Anybody connected with the Teachers' Organisation and the Department knows perfectly well that teachers will stay on in defiance&mdash;if I can use that phrase without being misunderstood&mdash;and in the hope that in the long run they will force the Department, whose judgment they are flouting, to pay them. 
     In this case the teachers have no claim against the Government.  They were paid up to the very last moment that they reasonably could be paid to, and they knew perfectly well from the end of 1924 recognition would be withdrawn from them.  They were paid to 30th April, 1925.  Those of them who were appointed to schools had their payments resumed after 26th October, 1927.  There is one case, the details of which I cannot remember, the case of Mr. Mullin of Dublin.  I will examine it to see how far it does differ as regards certain periods from the others. Some of the teachers did accept our decision and went away from the schools.  Are we to penalise them?  In a way we are in danger of creating a very troublesome situation for the Department. Those who stayed on apparently are to be paid.  That does not seem even-handed justice.  Had the situation continued much longer a very difficult position might have arisen which might have affected the position of other teachers in the schools.  We could not ourselves dismiss the   teachers.  The only way we could secure their dismissal would be the withdrawal of recognition from every teacher in the schools.  That situation might have arisen.  But it did not arise, and for that the teachers in question cannot claim any particular credit. They have no claim against the State. The fact that they remained on was in   defiance of the expressed wishes of the State.  They were clearly warned that they were no longer employees of the State, and if they remained on it was a matter between themselves and those who directly employed them. 
     The Dail adjourned at 8.55 p.m. until 3 o'clock on Thursday, 15th March. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - MEETINGS IN CO. LONGFORD SCHOOLS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education if he will produce a copy of the reply of the Manager of the National Schools at Breaghy and Ballinalee, in the parish of Clonbroney, County Longford, to the communication which his Department addressed to the manager with reference to the holding of political meetings in those schools. 
     
     
      
       I do not think that it is proper that letters between managers of schools and the Department of Education should be published, and, accordingly, I regret that I cannot meet the Deputy's wishes. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - CONGESTION IN COUNTY MAYO. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he is aware that acute congestion exists on the Roper Estate, Record No. S. 1623, Drumelly Cross, Cong, County Mayo, that the average valuation of 15 sub-tenants of Mr. Charles E. Mayne, on this estate, is under £4, that Mr. Mayne offered his adjoining farm containing 123 acres to the Irish Land Commission for the purpose of relieving the congestion of his sub-tenants, and if he will state the cause of delay by the Land Commission in dealing with the matter. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have decided to treat the sub-tenants on the holding of Mr. C.E. Mayne on the Roper Estate (S. 1623) as direct tenants, and with a view to the enlargement of these holdings propose to institute   proceedings for the resumption of the balance of the lands, extending to 123a. 1r. 12p., in the occupation of Mr. Mayne as tenant.  Proceedings in the matter are being dealt with as expeditiously as possible. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he is aware that acute congestion exists on the estate of the Trustees of C.E. Livesay, Barony of Ross (Record No. 6000), County Mayo, that the poor law valuations of 35 tenants on this estate are under £5; and if he will state what steps are being taken by the Irish Land Commission to acquire the large grazing ranch held by Captain Henry Dudley Hodgson, containing 380 acres, for the purpose of relieving the existing congestion. 
     
     
      
       The lands on the estate of the Trustees of C.E. Livesay, County Mayo, comprising 56 holdings, have been published in a Provisional List of lands which will, if not excluded in consequence of a valid objection, become vested in the Land Commission on the appointed day. 
       The Commissioners are aware that the majority of the holdings on the estate are under £5 poor law valuation. 
       The lands referred to in the latter part of the question appear to be 323 acres in the townland of Kilbride, held by Captain H.D. Hodgson.  The question of their acquisition will be considered in connection with the sale of the Livesay Estate. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that acute congestion exists on the De Clifford Estate, in the vicinity of Shrule, County Mayo, and if he will state what steps, if any, are being taken by the Irish Land Commission to acquire the large grazing farm held by Mrs. Cummins, adjoining the town of Shrule, for the relief of congestion. 
     
     
      
       The lands mentioned are in the occupation of Mrs. May Cummins as yearly tenant and the question of acquiring her interest is under consideration. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - A CO. WESTMEATH ESTATE. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if the Land Commission have completed negotiations in respect of the Kavanagh estate, Kilmore, County Westmeath, and, if so, when the lands will be divided. 
     
     
      
       The land of Kilmore referred to is a tenanted holding in the occupation of Trustees Kilmore Farm Society as judicial tenants thereof on the estate of Sir C.T. McMurrough Kavanagh and the Land Commission propose to resume same when the lands become vested in them. 
       Pending resumption the Commissioners are in negotiation with the trustees with a view to taking a temporary letting of the lands and subletting portions thereof to approved persons. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DIVISION OF MAYO LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he is aware that the Kyne Estate, Tubbernadara, Shrule, Co. Mayo, was acquired by the Congested Districts Board in 1913; that the untenanted lands on this estate are still let in grazing, and if he will now state what steps, if any, are being taken by the Land Commission to divide the lands among the holders of uneconomic holdings in the district to relieve the acute congestion which exists there. 
     
     
      
       The above estate, comprising 124 acres of tenanted land and 54 acres of untenanted land, was vested in the late Congested Districts Board on 27th January, 1913, and a further area of 102 acres of untenanted land was acquired from the owner and vested in the Board on 15th February, 1920. 
       The untenanted land referred to was offered to the tenants in 1922, but they refused to accept the striping arrangements. The inspector is being instructed to again offer the proposed division to the tenants, and if they are now willing to accept them purchase agreements will be presented for signature in due course. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - AISIOC NA mBANNAI. 
     
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Airgid an bhfuil fhios aige cathain a aisiocfar na bannai leis na daoine seo leanas:&mdash; Thomas Dowling, Ballinafagh, Prosperous; Mrs. John Hill, The Grange, Edenderry; Mr. Kennedy, Clogherinkoe, Carbury; P. Condron, Junr., Prosperous, Sallins; Michael O'Kelly, Naas; Miss O'Kelly, Naas; Mrs. Prendergast, Richardstown, Kildangan, Monasterevan; Maurice Higgins, Ballymullen, Tralee, for Richard Higgins, Sallins, deceased; Michael Smith, Kildoon, Kildare; William Murphy, Donore, Caragh, Naas; Christopher Costello, Clonkeen, Carbury, for Edward Costello, Longridge, Carbury, deceased; M. Murphy, Main Street, Monasterevan; Mrs. Annie Hill, Arthurstown, Kill, Straffan; Denis Duggan, Highfield House, Edenderry; Mrs. Fitzpatrick, Monasterevan, widow of Patrick Fitzpatrick, Monasterevan; John Hayes, 3 Rowan Terrace, Newbridge; Mary Boylan, Knockirr, Carbury; John Finerty, Maynooth. 
     
     
      
       Tathar tar eis a udaru don Roinn Puist agus Telegrafa Cairteacha Coigiltis do thabhairt amach do Mrs. Bridget Prendergast, Denis Duggan agus John Hayes chun a chur ar a gcumas aisioc ina geuid sintius d'fhail. 
       Tathar tar eis iarrataisi ar aisioc d'fhail o Thomas Dowling, P. Condron (junior), M. O'Kelly, Miss O'Kelly, Michael Smyth, William Murphy agus Mrs. Annie Hill, agus breithneofar na hiarrataisi seo cho tapaidh agus is feidir e. 
       Nior dhin ionadaithe R. Higgins (deceased), Edward Costello (deceased), agus Patrick Fitzpatrick (deceased), aon fhinneacht do chur isteach chun a chruthu go bhfuilid i dteideal aisioc d'fhail sna sintiuisi gur chuireadar iarrataisi isteach ina dtaobh. 
       Ni dheabhruionn an sceal go bhfuarthas im' Roinn-se aon iarrataisi ar aisioc o Mrs. John Hill, &ldquo;Mrs.&rdquo; Kennedy, &ldquo;M.&rdquo;  Murphy, Mary Boylan agus John Finerty. 
     
   
 