 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COMMISSION ON ECONOMIC POSITION. 
     
      
       asked the President whether, in view of the condition of continued unemployment, he is now prepared to act on the suggestion that a Commission or Committee representing all parties should be set up to examine the whole economic position of the country with a view to finding a solution of the problem. 
     
     
      
       The present question appears to differ from the proposal contained in the Deputy's question of 17th July last inasmuch as it suggests the appointment of a Committee representing all parties to examine into the whole economic position of the country with a view to improving the situation as regards employment. Quite clearly the value of any such Committee would be largely dependent upon the spirit in which the issues were approached.  I would not be prepared, nor would it serve any useful purpose, to appoint a Committee which would deal with these important matters in a spirit of political or party controversy.  The final decision as to the extent to and direction in which Governmental action can usefully be taken towards the solution of economic problems must, of course, always remain in the hands of those who for the time being bear the responsibility of government, but for my part I should welcome any assistance or advice which might result from a careful and dispassionate examination of these problems by a Committee of responsible representatives who were prepared to undertake such examination in a non-partisan atmosphere. 
     
     
        If I receive an assurance from the Deputy, on behalf of those for whom he speaks, that he and they are prepared to co-operate in the work of such a Committee in the spirit I have indicated I would be prepared to nominate a Committee with suitable terms of reference. 
     
      
       Well, I think I can give the President an assurance at once on that point if that is all his trouble.  We are most anxious to see this problem solved, and we are most anxious that the energies of all parties should be exercised towards solving it. 
     
     
      
       Very good. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DUN LAOGHAIRE DISPENSARY APPOINTMENT. 
     
      
       asked the President whether the Medical Officer recently appointed to No. 1 Dispensary, Dun Laoghaire, was the person recommended by the Selection Board, and, if so, whether he will state in what essentials the local practitioners who applied were not suited for the position. 
     
     
      
       The reply to the first part of the question is in the affirmative.  The qualifications of all the applicants for the post of Medical Officer of Dun Laoghaire No. 1 Dispensary District were carefully examined by the Local Appointments Commissioners with the assistance of a Competent Board of Selection who interviewed the candidates.  In accordance with the usual practice the most highly qualified and suitable candidate was recommended for appointment. The extent to which preference can be given to a candidate because of his being a local practitioner is limited, and in the present case the Commissioners, having regard to the report of the Board of Selection, did not feel justified in interfering with the placings of the applicants on this ground. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FUNDS FOR WORKS IN RURAL AREAS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether it is the intention of his Department to place   funds at the disposal of the Land Commission for the execution of necessary works in rural areas, and for the completion of unfinished works during the coming winter. 
     
     
      
       A sum of £323,200 is provided in the Vote for the Land Commission for the current year for the improvement of estates, etc., and I have no reason to think that this amount is insufficient.  The provision made in the Vote for Relief Schemes for 1928-29 is the amount which it was estimated would be required to complete works unfinished on the 31st March, 1928.  When the Estimate was being prepared it was understood from the Land Commission that no provision was required so far as that Department was concerned for the completion of unfinished works. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PROTECTIVE TARIFF TO COACHBUILDERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether, in connection with the application of the Irish Coachbuilders for increased duties on coach-built goods, he is aware that there has been practically no opposition to the application so far as it applies to horse-traps and bodies for motor omnibuses and other commercial motor vehicles; and whether, in view of that fact, and seeing that the import of such articles still continues to the detriment of Irish labour, he will ask for an Interim Report from the Commission on that part of the Coachbuilders' proposals. 
     
     
      
       I understand that the Dublin Carriers' Association and the Furniture and Warehousemen's Association oppose the application in so far as it relates to horse-drawn vehicles and commercial motor vehicles, and that the Motor Bus and Coachowners' Association and the Irish Omnibus Company oppose it in so far as it relates to motor omnibuses.  There is, therefore, a substantial measure of opposition to these sections of the application and I do not propose to act on the Deputy's suggestion.  In any   case the initiative in seeking an interim report dealing with part of the application should, in my opinion, be left to the persons who have made the application. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KILKENNY OLD AGE PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that the old age pension claimed by Mrs. Mary Ryan, Ruthstown, Ballyfoyle, Co. Kilkenny, was refused in April, 1928, on the ground that her means exceeded £39 5s. 0d. per annum; and whether he will state how this figure was arrived at. 
     
     
      
       I understand the decision in this case was given by the Local Old Age Pension Committee.  I am unable to state on what grounds the committee arrived at their decision nor have I any power to question it as I have no jurisdiction over the committee, whose decision, in the absence of appeal, is final and conclusive. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF SITE OF BANDON MILITARY BARRACKS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that the Bandon Co-operative Dairy Society have been in communication with the Commissioners of Public Works with a view to acquiring the old military barracks at Bandon; that the Commissioners have offered the society two-thirds of the site, one-third being reserved as a barrack for the Garda Siochana; that the site offered the society is not large enough, but that the whole area would be adequate; that alternative suitable accommodation for the Garda is available in Bandon; and whether he will represent to the Commissioners the advisability of allowing the society the use of the whole site. 
     
     
      
       The Bandon Co-operative Society have been in communication with the Commissioners of Public Works and representations have been made by Deputies from the county on this subject, which is receiving careful consideration. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LOSSES BY FLOODING IN BALLINAGLERA, LEITRIM. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether his attention has been drawn to the recent flooding which has taken place in the Ballinaglera district of County Leitrim whereby 40 or 50 families have lost their crops and hay, and the lands have been covered with mud and stone from the mountain rivers; and whether it is proposed to take all such steps as may be necessary by grants or otherwise to help these poor people to tide over their loss and relieve the prevailing distress. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that flooding has taken place in the Stony and Yellow Rivers, Stradrinan, County Leitrim, whereby considerable damage has been done to lands, crops and houses; and whether it will be possible to allocate a grant for the purpose of removing the obstructions in the beds of these rivers. 
     
     
      
       I propose to answer Questions 7 and 8 together.  The flooding referred to in both questions is caused by the Stony and the Yellow Rivers.  Neither of these rivers is in an existing drainage district and the Commissioners of Public Works have not received a petition under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, in respect of either of them; consequently no action can be taken by the Commissioners for the improvement of the drainage conditions in this area.  Grants for the relief of distress are not administered by the Commissioners of Public Works. 
     
     
      
       Is it not the duty of the Local Government Department to relieve distress of this nature? 
     
     
      
       That does not concern my Department. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PRINCESS MARY'S VISIT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether he will state the exact cost to the taxpayers of the steps taken to afford protection to Princess Mary of England on the occasion of her recent visit to this country. 
     
     
     
      
       It would not be in the public interest to disclose any particulars concerning police protection afforded to any individual. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SCHOLARSHIPS FOR FARMERS' CHILDREN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether he will state on what basis the income of a farmer was calculated in deciding whether or not a farmer's children were entitled to avail of the Scheme of Scholarships from primary to secondary schools (1928-29), and whether he will state what is the lowest valuation on a farm that would debar the occupant's children from availing of this scheme. 
     
     
      
       Section 17 of the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1923, empowers county councils to award scholarships on certain conditions to students who are in need of assistance to enable such students to obtain a secondary education of a vocational character.  The regulations governing the awards of these scholarships are set forth in schemes prepared by the county councils and approved of by the Minister for Education.  When preparing these schemes the county councils exercise a wide discretion in the question of the need of assistance of the students.  In view of the varying conditions as between residents in one county and residents in another, and of other circumstances, the details of the schemes in this respect vary considerably. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ENLARGEMENT OF BELGOOLY N.S., KINSALE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education whether he is aware that the national school at Belgooly, Kinsale, Co. Cork, has been condemned by inspectors as being too small for the number of pupils on the roll; whether he has received representations recommending its enlargement; and, if so, whether he will state what action it is proposed to take in the matter. 
     
     
     
      
       The reply to (1) and (2) is &ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;  Inquiry is being made in the Office of Public Works as regards the preparation of a suitable plan for the extension of the school, and the manager will be communicated with on the matter in due course. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FOREIGN FLOUR SOLD UNDER IRISH BRANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that large quantities of foreign flour are being imported into the Saorstat not bearing the name of the country of origin or production; that in the large bulk of these imports Irish names for the purpose of trade deception (such as &ldquo;Failte,&rdquo;&ldquo;Shamrock,&rdquo;&ldquo;St. Patrick,&rdquo; etc.) are branded in large letters on each sack; and whether he will now take the necessary steps to prohibit all such imports, and prosecute in the cases where this dishonest trading is being practised. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that foreign flour is imported into the Saorstat in bags or sacks not bearing the name of the country of origin or production.  There is no legal obligation to indicate the country of origin, unless there appears on the bag or sack a mark suggestive of Saorstat origin.  Specific complaints as to flour imported in bags bearing a brand suggestive of Irish origin have not been received by my Department for several years.  The Department made investigations and took action on the last complaint received by it and the manufacturers submitted a new brand which was considered unobjectionable within the meaning of the Merchandise Marks Acts.  I shall be prepared to investigate any further specific complaint made to me.  The question whether legislation should be introduced requiring imported food products to bear an indication of their country of origin is under consideration. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BENEFIT IN DUNMANWAY. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that unemployment insurance benefit has been refused in the case of Cornelius Wiseman. Coach Road, Dunmanway, Co. Cork, and whether he will state the reason for such refusal. 
     
     
      
       A claim to unemployment benefit made on the 8th August, 1928, by Cornelius Wiseman, Coach Road, Dunmanway, was disallowed on the ground that the applicant, being engaged as a Civil Bill Officer, was not unemployed and therefore failed to fulfil one of the statutory conditions for the receipt of unemployment benefit.  He was notified of the disallowance of his claim and of his statutory right of appeal to a Court of Referees, but no appeal has been received from him and accordingly his claim remains disallowed. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that this man's earnings would not amount to more than five shillings per week and will he indicate how the man is to support a wife and family on that amount, in the absence of unemployment benefit? Will he further say why contributions are deducted from his earnings for benefit that he never receives? 
     
     
      
       The man is not entitled to receive unemployment benefit while working. 
     
     
      
       I quite understand that, but does the Parliamentary Secretary mean to say that five shillings a week should be a bar to the man receiving unemployment benefit, while at the same time contributions for unemployment benefit are deducted from him? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - REDUCTIONS IN FLOUR PRICES NOT REFLECTED IN BREAD PRICES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that foreign and home milled flour was on offer to   master bakers at very low prices during the past four months; that, in fact, foreign millers were offering at 35s. and under that figure per sack of 280 lbs. up to March, 1929; that these prices have not been fully reflected in the cost of the 4-lb. loaf to the consumer, and that the quotation in Cork at the moment is 11d. delivered; and whether he will now take the necessary steps to ensure that the millers' prices are reflected in the price of bread to the consumer. 
     
     
      
       The only official information available to me as to the   prices for imported flour is that published in &ldquo;Milling,&rdquo; the organ of the milling industry, and for home-milled flour the prices quoted by the Irish Flour Millers' Association.  I have no information as to private offers of flour. 
       My Department recently sent a communication to the Cork Master Bakers' Association relative to the price of bread in Cork, and a reply has been received that it will be considered at the next meeting of the committee. Meanwhile it is stated that the prices of bread in Cork City are:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Plain and Fancy, delivered 
             10d. per pair (4lb. loaf). 
           
         
         
           
             ,,,,,,for cash at counter (Fresh) 
             91⁄2d.&nbsp;,,,, 
           
           
             ,,,,,,,,,,,,(Cold) 
             9d.,,,, 
           
           
             Household or popular loaf 
             9d.,,,, delivered 
           
           
             ,,,,,,,, 
             8d.,,,, at counter for cash. 
           
         
       
     
     These prices do not appear consistent with the views expressed by the Tribunal on Prices, and I am awaiting whatever explanations of the matter the Cork Master Bakers' Association has to offer. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KERRY SLATE QUARRIES AND COPPER MINES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether the mining experts who visited Kerry in June, 1927, in connection with the slate quarries in Valencia Island, and the copper mines in the parish of Caherdaniel, have sent to his Department a report as to the possible development of these quarries and mines; and, if so, whether he will cause a copy of that report to be laid on the table. 
     
     
      
       The Department's mining experts made inspections of various mineral deposits in county Kerry recently and samples were taken for purposes of examination. The examination, together with other necessary inquiries, is proceeding and I have asked that the report should not be delayed.  As soon as it reaches me I will supply the Deputy with a copy. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PRICE OF GAS IN SLIGO. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that, under Statutory Rules and Orders, 1926 (Gas Charges) No. 72, the Sligo Lighting and Electric Power Company, Limited, are bound under Section 2, sub-section (2) of the said Order to charge for the supply of gas on a basis of thermal units instead of a charge calculated per cubic foot; that since the date of the said Order. 1st November, 1926, the company are charging on a basis of per cubic feet contrary to the Order; and whether he will state what steps, if any, it is proposed to take against the company. 
     
     
      
       A complaint was received on the 11th instant from the Sligo Corporation regarding this matter, and, as the result of subsequent inquiry, a communication was sent to the Sligo Lighting and Electric Power Company requiring them to charge by thermal units instead of by cubic feet for all gas supplied in the area of the company. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WOUNDS PENSION FOR KILLALOE MAN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he will state on what grounds the application of ex-Lieutenant Frank Cassidy, late of Killaloe, and now residing in the United States, for a pension in respect of wounds received while serving with the National Army was rejected; and whether the case will be re-opened. 
     
     
     
      
       Mr. Cassidy's application was rejected on the grounds that he was not found to be suffering from any disability due to service.  All the circumstances of his case were carefully considered, and no useful purpose would be served by re-opening it. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that this man was wounded about seven times?  I have in my possession at the moment certificates from the medical man who examined ex-Lieutenant Cassidy in the United States, and the certificates state that his hand is permanently injured.  In view of the fact that there is corroboration of his statement that he is physically incapable of earning a living at the moment, does the Minister consider that that would be sufficient ground for examining this case again? 
     
     
      
       This man was examined and I received a report that he suffered from no disability. 
     
     
      
       If the Minister is supplied with an X-ray photograph of this man's injuries and with medical reports that he is suffering from these injuries at the present time and that his seven wounds are giving him trouble, will the Minister then not think that the man has been unjustly treated, accidentally or otherwise? 
     
     
      
       Well, of course, there is always the possibility of that, but as far as the evidence is concerned, what is the use of supplying me with an X-ray photograph which may be of an entirely different person? 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister think that with a certificate from a medical man showing that this man is suffering from injury at the present time, that that is not sufficient evidence for a re-opening of the case, considering the fact that ex-Lieutenant Cassidy's body was a mass of wounds originally &mdash;he was wounded seven times&mdash;and would it not be well to have another examination? 
     
     
      
       He was examined somewhere in 1927.  Remember, a man is not able to go to America under the   quota system unless the emigration authorities are satisfied that he is competent to earn a living.  Under the 1927 Act, he requires to have 80 per cent. disability in order to qualify for a pension.  If what the Deputy says is true, the man could not have gone to America. 
     
     
      
       I am not satisfied, but that a grave injustice has been done to this man, and I will take an early opportunity of raising the matter in the House. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ARMY REGULATIONS RE WEARING OF UNIFORM BY OFFICERS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if his attention has been drawn to recent allegations in the daily Press to the effect that the regulation on the wearing of uniform is strongly resented by the overwhelming majority of the commissioned ranks; and if he can state whether there are any grounds for these allegations. 
     
     
      
       I have seen the statements referred to.  I am well assured that officers give this regulation their hearty approval. 
       I am also aware that every officer with a proper sense of discipline resents statements in the Press that suggest that they would break Army discipline by voicing disapproval of Army Regulations. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Minister whether in view of the fact that officers will have to wear the uniform on all occasions, he will consider an alternative uniform of a pattern similar or resembling that which is worn by the Garda Siochana, a uniform with the collar and tie, which is more comfortable than the high collar uniform? 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister state whether in view of the fact that certain journals took advantage of the enforced silence&mdash;enforced upon the commissioned ranks of the Army&mdash;to misrepresent very grossly their attitude in the matter of the uniform,   whether the officers have any redress or whether they are obliged to bear in silence this misrepresentation without any means of replying? 
     
     
      
       I am afraid my replies here will have to act as such redress as they can look for. 
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say upon what grounds he made this regulation? 
     
     
      
       I think that is an entirely different question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KERRY RECIPIENTS OF ARMY PENSIONS RESIDENT ABROAD. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he will furnish a list of the names of persons from the County Kerry who are in receipt of pensions under the Army Pensions Act, 1923, and under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, and who are now residing outside Saorstat Eireann. 
     
     
      
       My Department is not in possession of the data necessary to give the information the Deputy requires. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ARMY PENSION OF WATERVILLE (KERRY) MAN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence to state the date on which Michael Moran, Murreigh, Waterville, Co. Kerry, was granted a pension of £75 a year under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, and what services were rendered by this man to entitle him to a military service certificate. 
     
     
      
       A military service pension was granted to Mr. Moran on the 21st January, 1926. 
       As regards the latter part of the question, I would refer the Deputy to my reply to his question on the 13th June last. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the amount of military service this gentleman gave previous to the truce consisted in taking part in an ambush by twenty-four I.R.A. men   of six policemen, in July, 1921, from the scene of which ambush the twenty-four I.R.A. men fled, pursued by two policemen?  Is the Minister also aware that seven or eight of those parties who took part in the ambush were granted pensions?  Further, is the Minister aware that the entire casualties amounted to one horse killed? 
     
     
      
       I did not exactly hear what the Deputy said, but I gather that he was questioning me about the evidence in this case.  I did not see the evidence. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LEASING OF SCARIFF WORKHOUSE PREMISES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state whether the proposed lease or letting of Scariff Workhouse premises (as laid on the Table of the Dail, 11th October, 1928) will interfere with the plots held by some workmen in the town of Scariff for the raising of potatoes, roots, etc. 
     
     
      
       The proposed letting includes a portion of one plot of the nature referred to by the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       How much of the one plot? 
     
     
      
       I am afraid I have no information before me.  In any event, the letting expired on the 21st January, 1927. 
     
     
      
       In view of the fact that they have something to say to the letting expiring, I want to know if this question is to be taken as a notice that this proposed lease will not go on until the Dail is satisfied that the plots will not go otherwise than in the direction originally contemplated. 
     
     
      
       You will have to put that to the Minister for Local Government. Obviously the law is there and can be enforced even by the Minister. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TARRED ROAD SURFACES. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he is aware that dissatisfaction exists among the farming community on the ground that trunk roads and link roads are tarred the whole width of the road, leaving no untarred space for horse traffic at the sides; and whether it is intended to discontinue this method. 
     
     
      
       I would refer the Deputy to the replies given on this subject in the Dail on the 23rd of February last.  I am further advised that leaving an untarred strip along each side to afford a foothold for horses, which has been done to a large extent for years past, has the great drawback that this strip wears away rapidly.  The central tarred strip remains good for years while the untarred strip wears away in a year or so, so that this part of the road becomes dangerously out of level with the middle.  It is not possible to steamroll it without breaking up the middle portion or to keep it intact by patching. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister suggest any remedy? 
     
     
      
       I think that supplementary questions should be addressed to the Minister for Local Government. I am answering questions for him as he is in the Seanad. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PURCHASE OF LABOURERS' COTTAGES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he intends introducing within the near future proposals for legislation to enable cottier tenants and bona fide agricultural labourers to purchase the labourers' cottages which they at present occupy. 
     
     
      
       In November last local authorities administering the Labourers (Ireland) Acts were communicated with for the purpose of ascertaining their views and those of the tenants as to the propriety of selling the cottages to the latter.  To date   only four boards of health have submitted definite proposals to sell.  Until the considered views of the remaining local authorities and tenants concerned are available it is not proposed to take any action. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CARRICK-ON-SHANNON PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he will state the reason why the old age pension of 6s. per week granted by the Carrick-on-Shannon Sub-Committee to Mr. Martin Cooney, aged 86 years, of Cloonford, Carrick-on-Shannon, Co. Roscommon, has been refused by the Department; and whether it is a fact that this man was in receipt of a pension of 4s. 6d. a week in 1917, and was then in possession of his farm. 
     
     
      
       The last appeal in this case was decided on 1st May, 1928, when it was determined that the claimant was not entitled to any pension as the Minister was not satisfied on the evidence before him that his means, as calculated under the Old Age Pensions Act, were within the statutory limit for the receipt of a pension. As regards the latter part of the Deputy's question it appears that the claimant was allowed a pension of 2s. a week on 1st April, 1915, and he may possibly have held the additional allowance of 2s. 6d. a week permitted in some cases prior to the passing of the Old Age Pensions Act, 1919.  Upon a question raised his pension was, however, wholly discontinued by decision dated 19th April, 1918, on the ground that his means exceeded £31 10s. 0d. a year, which was then the limit for the receipt of a pension. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister agree with the view that land is more value in 1928 than it was in 1917? This man was allowed no pension in 1928 though he had a pension of 2s. 6d. in 1917. 
     
     
      
       I have no opinions. All I know is that he has land to the value of £32 fully stocked.  That is not too bad. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CONDITION OF KILMALLOCK STREETS. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether he is aware that the streets of Kilmallock are in a deplorable condition; and whether he will make a grant towards the steam rolling and tar spreading of these streets so that they may be put in a proper sanitary condition. 
     
     
      
       This matter is one for the County Council of Limerick whose attention is being drawn to the statement in the Deputy's question. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO-OPERATIVE CREAMERY BILL. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture whether he will state when he proposes to introduce proposals for the Co-operative Creamery Scheme which he promised in the Seanad on the 24th July last. 
     
     
      
       I assume the Deputy refers to the proposed Co-operative Bill, which will deal with the co-operative movement generally and not merely with co-operative creameries. I am not at present in a position to indicate the date of the introduction of the Bill, but the date will probably be within the next three or four months. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - AGRICULTURAL GRANT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Agriculture whether he will consider the introduction of proposals for legislation whereby the Agricultural Grant will be increased so that agricultural holdings will be free of rates and that the money necessary for this purpose should be raised by way of increased taxation, or whether he will prescribe rules whereby the existing Agricultural Grant should be credited to councils according to the amount of land tilled in their areas, and that finally the grants credited to each council should be used towards the relief of rates in the case of holdings, not less than twenty-five per cent. of which are tilled. 
     
     
      
       The proposals which the Deputy refers to contain so many   implications and raise so many important issues that it would obviously be impossible for me to deal with them at this stage by way of question and answer. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GAELTACHT COMMISSION'S REPORT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state to what extent Paragraph 96 of the Report of Coimisiun na Gaeltachta, as accepted by the Government in Paragraph 30 (a) and (b) of the White Paper, has been put into operation, so far as concerns the Donegal Gaeltacht, by the following Departments: Posts and Telegraphs, Local Government and Public Health, Justice, Customs and Excise, Income Tax, and Labour Exchange. 
     
     
      
       Ta dul ar aghaidh deanta i bhfurmhor na Rann le n-a mbaineann an sceal maidir leis na molta ata luaidhte do chur in eifeacht, ach ni feidir, gan tuille ama d'fhail, cur-sios cruinn beacht do dheanamh ar an gcuma ina bhfuil an sceal fe lathair.  Ta se fe bhreithniu im' Roinn fein agus coinneoidh na Ranna eile suil ghear air. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACHILL FISHERMEN'S LOANS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that Farrell Lavelle, of Dooega, Achill, with five others, obtained a loan from the Department for the purchase of a fishing boat and nets; that those fishermen have now been proceeded against for the recovery of certain instalments alleged to be due on this loan, but which have been already paid, and the payment of which has been traced through the Post Office to the Department of Fisheries; whether he is aware that those fishermen have failed to get any acknowledgment either of the receipt of their money or of subsequent letters of inquiry concerning it; and whether he will state if it is intended to take action to stop legal proceedings in the matter, or, if not, what action it is intended to take. 
     
     
     
      
       I am aware that the fishermen referred to obtained a loan from my Department in May, 1927. As neither of the two instalments which had accrued had been received by my Department the collection has been put in the hands of the Chief State Solicitor.  My Department has no knowledge of the alleged loss in post of the remittance referred to, as the borrowers have never reported it, and in fact they have ignored all communications from my Department in reference to their debt.  I am having inquiries made from the Department of Posts and Telegraphs in the matter, and will communicate the result to the Deputy.  The Deputy does not say whether it was postal order, money order, or cheque. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware whether it was postal order or otherwise, but I am aware that the fishermen have traced their money, which was registered, through the post to the Fishery Department.  It is a very peculiar thing that the Minister is not able to say whether they received it or not.  The fishermen stated to me that they replied twice, and they refused to pay a subsequent instalment until they got an acknowledgment of their money. Both registered packets were traced by the Westport Post Office to the Fishery Department. 
     
     
      
       It is strange that the Post Office has no knowledge of the money being received.  The money has not been received in my Department. The fishermen refused to answer any communications in connection with their instalments. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LAND COMMISSION SOLICITOR. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state by whose authority an advertisement appeared in the &ldquo;Irish Times&rdquo; dated 18th July last under the name of R. Simmons styling himself Solicitor to the Irish Land Commission when, in fact, the position was vacant on that date. 
     
     
      
       The advertisement   referred to was prepared in draft form before the position of Solicitor to the Land Commission became vacant, and had then appended the name of the late solicitor, who died during the week preceding the publication of the advertisement.  The name of the assistant solicitor was substituted for that of the late solicitor when the advertisement was being sent for publication, but through an error he was not described as assistant solicitor. The latter was absent on leave at the time.  In all subsequent notices of the kind over his name his correct title has been inserted. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary say how it was that two advertisements, actually appeared, one under the name &ldquo;R. Simmons, Solicitor for the Irish Land Commission,&rdquo; and the other under the name &ldquo;R. Simmons, Solicitor to the Irish Land Commission&rdquo;?  I raised this question before the Recess, and since then every advertisement that I have noticed in the newspapers has appeared under the title &ldquo;R. Simmons, Assistant Solicitor to the Irish Land Commission,&rdquo; but previous to this question the advertisements were under the title &ldquo;Solicitor to the Irish Land Commission,&rdquo; although at that time the position was vacant. 
     
     
      
       As I explained in my reply to the Deputy, two advertisements actually appeared bearing the name &ldquo;R. Simmons, Solicitor to the Irish Land Commission,&rdquo; in error.  He was in hospital at the time and had nothing to do with the advertisements. Since then all advertisements appear under the name &ldquo;R. Simmons, Assistant Solicitor to the Irish Land Commission,&rdquo; for the reason that the position of solicitor has not yet been filled. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PRESERVATION OF ANCIENT MONUMENTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state what steps, if any, are being taken to ensure the preservation of ancient monuments of historical interest in Co. Meath on lands taken over for division by the Land Commission. 
     
     
     
      
       When dealing with estates under the Land Purchase Acts which contain any ancient monument which, in the opinion of the Land Commission is of public interest, by reason of its historic, traditional or artistic interest, or is of archaeological interest, the Land Commission bring it to the notice of the Commissioners of Public Works with a view to its being vested in those Commissioners.  If the Commissioners of Public Works do not consider that the monument is one which should be vested in them, the Land Commission bring it under the notice of the county council with a view to enabling the council to consider the taking over of the monument. 
     
     
      
       Has the Parliamentary Secretary any information as to the progress of the contemplated Bill which, I understand, the Government have in view, and which would include the preservation of ancient monuments? 
     
     
      
       I am not in a position to give the Deputy any information on that matter. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF CO. MAYO LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state what part of the lands known as the O'Connor-Lease portion of the Lynch-Blosse Estate, Balla, Co. Mayo, is being acquired by the Land Commission, and whether in view of the serious congestion that exists in the area in question, he will state when the above land will be available for distribution amongst the uneconomic landholders in the district. 
     
     
      
       The area proposed to be distributed is some 270 acres.  Legal proceedings for obtaining possession of the lands are pending, but it is not possible at present to say when they will be available for distribution. 
     
     
      
       Am I to understand from the Parliamentary Secretary that the present holders of that grazing land will be able to retain portion of it? 
     
     
     
      
       I would ask the Deputy not to press for further information on the subject at present, as there are legal proceedings pending and any information given by way of question and answer might have a bearing on the result of the case which is pending. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LAND CONGESTION IN RUSH. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether applications for land has been received on behalf of some thirty-one small holders in the Rush area, and whether he will state when it is proposed to give these people economic holdings. 
     
     
      
       The reply to the first part of the question is in the affirmative. The Land Commission have under consideration the question of acquiring lands in the district with a view to the relief of congestion. 
     
     
      
       Can the Parliamentary Secretary give any information as to when it is likely that the land will be acquired to relieve congestion? 
     
     
      
       I cannot give the information at present as investigations are being made as to what land is suitable for the relief of congestion which admittedly exists. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that this matter has been under consideration for more than two years, and will he endeavour to expedite the matter? 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO. CARLOW ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state what progress has been made by the Land Commission towards acquiring the Castle farm (Bruen estate), Ballyloughan, Muine Beag, and when it is proposed to take steps for its distribution among the neighbouring uneconomic holders. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to appear to be a holding of 79a. 2r. 55p. in the townland of Ballyloughan, on the estate of Henry Bruen, Co. Carlow, occupied by Thomas F. Rothwell as, tenant, which the Land Commission   propose to retain under Section 28, subsection 6 (d) of the Land Act, 1923, with a view to considering the question of taking proceedings for its resumption for the relief of congestion. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CO. ROSCOMMON LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he can state when the farm of Kilvoy (O'Connor estate), Mantua, Co. Roscommon, will be sub-divided. 
     
     
      
       An offer for the purchase of the lands referred to has been accepted, and a scheme for their division is at present under consideration. It is hoped to allot the lands at an early date. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary say what he means by an early date? 
     
     
      
       I am sorry that I cannot be more definite. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CONGESTION IN CO. KILDARE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that the Land Commission do not propose to acquire for the relief of congestion the lands containing 101 acres in the townland of Kilmalum, Ballymore-Eustace district, Co. Kildare, on the estate of Captain Edward S. Hornidge; that he stated on the 11th May, 1927, in the Dail that the Land Commission proposed to acquire 402 acres which included the above-mentioned lands; that this holding is specially suitable for division, and that owing to the failure of the Land Commission to acquire it grave dissatisfaction exists amongst the congests in the immediate vicinity, and whether he will, in order to allay this feeling of resentment, instruct the Land Commission to institute proceedings immediately for the acquisition of these lands. 
     
     
      
       As stated in reply to the Deputy's previous question the Land Commission made an offer to the owner for the purchase of 402 acres, which was not accepted by him.  The Land Commission then instituted proceedings   under the Land Act, 1923.  for the acquisition of the lands exclusive of 48 acres of the townland of Ballymore-Eustace included in the offer which were subsequently ascertained to be tenanted lands, viz:&mdash; 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Broadleas Common 
             36a. 
             0r. 
             16p. 
           
         
         
           
             Horsepasstown 
             76a. 
             2r. 
             36p. 
           
           
             Kilmalum 
             166a. 
             0r. 
             25p. 
           
           
             Silverhill Lower 
             75a. 
             2r. 
             20p. 
           
           
             Total: 
             354a. 
             2r. 
             17p. 
           
         
       
     
     These lands were published in a provisional list of lands which, if not excluded in consequence of a valid objection, would vest in the Land Commission on the Appointed Day. 
     The owner objected to the acquisition of the lands and his objection was heard in court and disallowed save in respect of 50a. 3r. 28p. situate in the townland of Horsepasstown. 
     The price of the remainder of the lands has been fixed and published in accordance with the Act and the time has not yet expired within which the owner may appeal to the Judicial Commissioners on the question of price. 
     
      
       Can the Parliamentary Secretary say if all the lands at Kilmalum are being acquired by the Land Commission?  My information is that this farm of something like 100 acres is held by a man on the eleven months system who has two large farms adjoining. 
     
     
      
       As I have stated, all the lands have been acquired with the exception of 86 acres which are regarded as utterly unsuitable for the purposes of division. 
     
     
      
       Is it the intention to retain this land for a man with two large farms adjoining? 
     
     
      
       I have already explained that all the lands have been acquired with the exception of 86 acres which are utterly unsuitable for our purposes. 
     
     
      
       I would like to impress on the Parliamentary Secretary the fact that this is a very important matter for the peace of that district. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - COMPLETION OF AN ACHILL ROAD. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state when the bog road on the Pike Estate, Cloughmore, Achill, will be completed. 
     
     
      
       The bog road referred to was started last January under the Relief Works Schemes but the tenants through whose holdings it would have to be made, objected thereto and the construction thereof was abandoned. 
     
     
      
       Is it not a fact that the Cloughmore people have an equal right to that bog district or mountain with the others who objected to the making of the road? 
     
     
      
       I do not know anything about the rights of the other tenants, but I do know that the tenants through whose land this road was to pass objected to it.  Consequently the work had to be abandoned. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TURBARY FOR ACHILL TENANTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will consider the advisability of letting the tenants of Cloughmore, Achill, turbary on the Pike Estate, which is at present in the hands of the Irish Land Commission, and upon which they can obtain turf within one mile and a half of their homes. 
     
     
      
       I would be obliged if the Deputy would kindly repeat his question next week, when I hope to have the necessary information. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF NENAGH ESTATE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether it is the intention of the Land Commission to acquire the lands of General Koe Youghal, Nenagh, Co. Tipperary, containing 517 acres, 1 rood, 35 perches, and, if so, whether he can state when they will be divided amongst the uneconomic and landless people of the district. 
     
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are having inquiries made regarding the suitability of the lands for acquisition under the Land Act, 1923. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DISTRIBUTION OF CARRONENEDAN FARM (CLAREMORRIS). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state when it is proposed to start the work of distribution of Carronenedan Farm.  Tulrahan, Claremorris, owned by the late Mr. Dillon, and which was taken over by the Land Commission some years ago. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to were occupied by a tenant on the estate of D. More O'Ferrall, which was acquired by the late Congested Districts Board; the Board resumed the holding, and the lands are being dealt with as rapidly as circumstances permit in connection with a scheme of rearrangement of neighbouring townlands. 
     
   
   
     INTRODUCTION OF BILLS. - DESTRUCTIVE INSECTS AND PESTS BILL, 1928&mdash;FIRST STAGE. 
     
      
       I beg to move for leave to introduce a Bill   entitled an Act to make further and better provision for the protection of crops, trees and bushes from insects and pests destructive thereto and for that purpose to amend the Destructive Insects and Pests Acts, 1877 and 1907. 
       Leave granted.  Second Stage ordered for Wednesday, 31st October. 
     
     
      
       Will this Bill apply to any members of the Dail? 
     
   
   
     ORDERS OF THE DAY. - HOUSING BILL, 1928&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       I move the Second Reading of this Bill.  The Bill completes the housing proposals of 1922, 1924, 1925 and 1926 and it extends to the 17th October, 1929, the date for the completion of houses by private persons and public utility societies under the provisions of the Act.  It makes provision for carrying out the promise made by the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Local Government during the discussion on the Estimates, for houses which would not otherwise have received the grants made available under the 1926 Act.  It makes available a sum of £200,000 for the payment of grants to private persons, public utility societies and local authorities.  The total number of houses under the scheme that have been in course of erection since 1922 runs to about 14,000.  This Bill will provide for a further 2,500 houses. The Bill is not on a par with the other Housing Bills which have been introduced here, inasmuch as they marked a departure or outlined a policy.  It is a completion of the policy which has been in operation since 1922.  I formally move the Second Reading. 
     
     
      
       The Bill as it stands, seeking as it does, judging by the statement of the President of the Executive Council, to complete what was in mind when the Housing Bill of 1925 was introduced, may be all right within such limitations, but I would like to ask if it is a fact that it is the only Bill dealing with the great   and urgent problem of housing that is to be brought forward by the Executive Council within the present session. If the President or one of his colleagues in the Executive Council could assure us that a Bill dealing with this problem of housing, in the way that it needs to be dealt with, would be brought forward at an early date there would probably be little talk or discussion on the Bill as it stands, but unless an assurance of that kind is given I hope there will be very considerable discussion on the housing question in general. If this is the only suggestion for the time being put forward by those in authority to deal with the problem of housing, it is to my mind an insult to the House to offer a Bill of this kind with the sum of £200,000 attached&mdash;to offer that amount of money to the local authorities and societies interested in housing. £200,000 for the whole of the twenty-six counties to deal with the urgent and pressing problem of housing.  If that be all they have to offer it is to my mind a grave scandal, and it is something that the House ought not to put up with.  Housing conditions have often been described in this House&mdash; every Deputy should be familiar with them.  I know I am familiar with the housing conditions in Dublin City and other areas.  In Dublin there is no other problem, with the probable exception of unemployment, that is more urgent, that needs more serious and pressing consideration, than this subject of housing. 
     
     The President tells us that since the Housing Act of 1925 was passed 14,000 houses have been built.  That may be so.  But it is also a fact that there are in Dublin City to-day as many, if not more, families living in one-room tenements than there were ten years ago. The problem of housing is in a worse condition to-day than it was when the Executive Council took control.  Instead of improving, the conditions in Dublin are disimproving.  They are worse now than they were.  Despite the fact that 14,000 houses have been built, as we are told, anybody interested can examine that statement for himself and can get from the housing authorities in Dublin figures which will   bear out what I say.  Before the Act of 1925 was passed there were 20,000 families living in one-room tenements. I am credibly informed that that number has increased&mdash;not perhaps to a very great extent&mdash;but it has increased and is increasing every day.  Instead of going in a wise way to tackle that grave problem, we are presented with a footy Bill of this kind and offered £200,000 to solve, I suppose, a grave, urgent and pressing social problem, than which there is no more urgent problem before the country.  It is, I repeat, a scandal.  It is a mockery of the poor, of the unemployed, of the houseless and homeless people of this city, where there are so many, and of the whole Twenty-six Counties.  If those who are responsible have no better solution and no more hope to give us than is outlined within the ambit of this Bill, the sooner they get out and acknowledge that they are inept and unfit to deal with this great problem the better.  I am sure I can speak for my colleagues when I say that we do not like dealing with this urgent and grave problem from the party standpoint. I would join with any party or individual or set of individuals in this House in an earnest effort, if a serious effort were made to tackle this very urgent problem in the way that it needs to be tackled, and in a manner that it has not been tackled so far by the Executive Council that is charged with the responsibility.  Even the principal Act, that we are amending to-day, has not tackled the problem in the way it should be dealt with.  We may be told that there are grave difficulties in the way.  Of course there are grave financial difficulties in the way. What are we here for but to find a way out of these difficulties? 
     
      
       How? 
     
     
      
       It can be done.  It cannot be done in six months, or one year, or perhaps in five years, but a scheme could be introduced and we could accept responsibility for a scheme, financially and otherwise, which would certainly end the housing problem as we know it to-day within ten years.  This Bill will not do it.  It   will not do it within the next fifty years, if it goes on at the same rate of progress.  Some of us have reason to remember the glowing promises made a few months ago when the Committee on Unemployment had been sitting for some time.  A vacancy arose in North Dublin and the chairman of that committee was put up as a candidate. A friend has been kind enough to supply me with extracts from the speeches of the most prominent Cumann na nGaedheal members who went into that constituency to advocate that Deputy Rice be elected, because he was chairman of that committee which was going to solve the housing problem. I am not going to trouble the House by reading extracts from these speeches. I am sure we would find it very amusing to hear read the glowing promises made by responsible people when they said that if the Deputy were added to the members on the Cumann na nGaedheal Benches the housing problem in Dublin City, at all events, would be ended in twelve months.  Not quite twelve months, but a considerable time has elapsed, and some consideration I presume has been given to the subject of housing, especially in the city of Dublin.  This meagre Bill with its £200,000&mdash;a fleabite even in the city of Dublin to tackle such a problem&mdash;is what is offered to us as a consequence. 
     
     I think every Deputy who is really in earnest ought to get up and bombard the Executive Council and impress the House with the grave necessity for tackling this problem.  If we tackle it as it should be tackled, we will be, as it were, killing two birds with the one stone.  We will be bringing our minds to bear on one of the greatest social evils with which the country is oppressed, the question of housing, and we will also be providing for the early solution of the unemployment question: because if we tackle the housing question as it should be tackled, we will be able to find employment for all the idle artisans and labourers connected with the building trade, not alone in Dublin but all over the country. That will have a very beneficial effect on the question of unemployment. I urge that this matter be dealt with by the House in a way that it has not evidently been dealt with, and   that there is no intention of dealing with it by the Executive Council, or those responsible for trotting out a foolish, ridiculous, absurd, make-belief of a Bill of this kind. 
     
      
       I oppose this Bill, but on quite different grounds from those put forward by the Deputy who has just spoken.  The Deputy has experience in the matter of housing, and he has rightly said that this problem of housing is one of the most serious problems that confront this House to-day.  I agree with him in that statement, but when we come to deal with serious problems let us have constructive criticism. Deputy O'Kelly has spoken at considerable length and in considerable detail, but he has left us quite in the dark as to what his proposals are for dealing with this large problem.  That is no use at all.  If we are to speak upon this problem, let us try to help towards its solution.  Any remarks I have to make will be aimed in that direction. 
       The objection I have to make to this Housing Bill is that it begins at the wrong end.  The real problem in connection with housing in this city and throughout the Saorstat is the tenement dwellers.  As the Deputy has rightly pointed out, figures have shown, notwithstanding what has been done by the Government over a number of years, that that problem is worse to-day than it was when this Government took on the responsibilities of office. There is no doubt on that point.  Now if we turn back to the 1925 Act, referred to as the principal Act, we get the substance of my objection. 
     
     In the schedule attached to the Act we find that the local authority which erected three-roomed cottages gets a subsidy from the State of £60 per cottage. The same local authority that erected four-roomed houses gets a subsidy of £80, and if they erect five-roomed houses they get from the State a subsidy of £100 each.  I need not mention, in this House, because all of us have some knowledge of building and dabble in it, from time to time, that the greater the number of rooms in a house the cheaper the cost per room.  What is the effect of that when   you apply it to this schedule?  A house with five rooms gets a subsidy of £100 while a house with three rooms only gets a subsidy of £60.  Naturally the result is on the part of those building to go for the larger subsidy. In other words the Act of 1925 puts a premium on large houses as was distinctly pointed out at the time. What the problem to-day needs is that the premium should be put upon the smaller houses so that we may encourage the erection of houses for which the people occupying tenements can afford to pay.  What is the use of telling a man in a tenement &ldquo;here is a five-roomed house, a lovely looking picture,&rdquo; at a rent of 15/-, 17/6, or 20/- per week&mdash;an impossible rent for him to pay.  Therefore I say we are proceeding along wrong lines and from the wrong end.  The Government has done that.  Every succeeding Minister has blundered along the same road since we started upon this housing problem and the poor person in the tenements to-day, is, as a result, in a worse position than he was five years ago. 
     There are limitations as to what this or any Government can spend, and as to what any local authority can spend on houses.  We have not got an indefinite amount at our disposal to deal with to finance a huge problem of this character.  But what we ought to be sure to do is that what we can afford and what we do spend shall be spent wisely.  That is my contention, and my objection is that this money has not been spent wisely.  I have been told by predecessors of the present Minister for Local Government that we cannot do anything with the slum dweller.  Building at the moment is uneconomic; we cannot help him; the expenditure is too great.  I am not at all satisfied that there has been any real desire on the part of the Government to help the slum dweller.  I have not seen a single Bill that has come before this House since I had the privilege of being a member, that made any attempt whatever to deal with the problem of the slum dweller in the single roomed tenement. I want to see that something should be done for him. 
     We have done a great deal in this   House and by successive Bills brought forward to help the housing of the well-to-do artisan because it is only well-to-do artisans who can afford to pay rents for these larger houses, and under previous Acts we have helped the well-to-do artisan and I want something done now for the poorer people. Therefore I urge that in spending additional sums on houses these sums ought to be spent in the direction I have mentioned.  As far as I am concerned I would urge, in view of the limitation of the finances of this Government, that any money devoted to housing, in the future, should be spent entirely in helping that particular class and for that reason&mdash;I do not go so far as to object to this Bill&mdash;I urge, as strongly as I possibly can, that the money should be used differently from what is proposed in this Bill. 
     
      
       We favour this Bill in so far as it keeps faith with the people who built houses in the belief that this money would be available but, so far as our opinion of its solving the housing problem or doing anything in that direction is concerned it is a different matter.  Deputy Good certainly has surprised me by the attitude he has taken towards this Bill.  He has taken up an attitude different from that which he has taken on the previous Bill. 
     
     
      
       That is not so. 
     
     
      
       He objected to certain statements made by Deputy Sean T. O'Kelly and stated that he was waiting for some constructive criticism from him.  I thought from that statement that we were going to hear something from Deputy Good as to how he would solve the housing problem and I must say I was very much surprised to see him sitting down without making any effort, good, bad or indifferent, to solve that problem.  He criticised the past policy of the Government and, much as I have to say about the Government's housing policy in so far as the spending of the grants are concerned, I am in entire agreement with what they did.  I have almost twenty years' experience of housing in local authorities and I do not agree at all with the   proposal of Deputy Good that a larger subsidy should be given for a small class of house.  I am totally opposed to a three-roomed house for the working man because I believe that if you encourage the erection of three-roomed dwellings that a state of affairs would prevail after a short time equivalent to those which are rightly condemned in the slum areas.  A working man is entitled to a house with decent accommodation. He is just as much entitled to a bath-room as a man in any other walk of life.  I know very well it is not easy to bring about that at the moment but I would ask the Government not to heed the suggestion made by Deputy Good that a larger subsidy should be given for a three-roomed house.  A five-roomed house is small enough for any worker especially if that man has a mixed family.  To ask a man with a mixed family to live in a three-roomed dwelling is inhuman. 
     
     As far as I can see from the Bill it has no provisions to enable either a local authority or a private person to build houses in the future.  It is just the Government keeping faith with people who have been building for the last twelve months and I would like to know when the Government are going seriously to tackle the housing problem. I would like to know when the pledges of the President and other of his Ministers are going to be fulfilled. I have seen it stated by responsible people of the Government within the last two or three years that money on loan would be available for a comparatively long term of years to enable local authorities to start building in earnest.  Up to the present it has been impossible&mdash;in a provincial town at any rate.  I do not know altogether what the conditions are that prevail in Dublin&mdash;to erect a house which can be let at a reasonable rent to a working man.  At the moment the banks will not advance money for a longer term of years than ten to a local authority. The tendency is to build a bungalow type of house of three rooms and a cubicle.  That house is being built in various localities, and provincial towns in Ireland at £290 or £270 in some cases.  If we assume that it costs £270 and the Government gives a subsidy of £70, you will have to borrow £200 at   an annuity of £12 10s., and that will work out a rent with redemption of principal and interest at 9/7 per week. I would ask the President does he consider that is a reasonable rent for a working man to pay in a small town in any part of this country?  If the Government would do what they have promised repeatedly that they will do, to give money out of the local funds to local authorities for thirty or forty years, that would, to my mind go almost the whole way to solve the housing problem.  If the Government were to release money from the Local Loans Fund for a period of thirty years you would have a rent of something about 5/9 per week.  That would be very acceptable at the moment in view of the fact that the working classes, up to this, have not been able to take advantage of the housing schemes which have been set in motion under the Acts from 1925 onwards. 
     I would ask the President in all seriousness when he intends to do something practicable in so far as housing is concerned.  This Bill is just a make-belief; it is pretending to do something which the Government are not doing. It is keeping faith with people who have been in a position to build houses during the last twelve months. A great many people in the country when they saw that a Housing Bill was to be introduced were expecting great things in view of the statements made by Ministers during the past twelve months or two years.  I believe there will be keen disappointment felt all over the country when they know the terms of this Bill. 
     Deputy Sean T. O'Kelly has referred to the fact that Deputy Rice's name was broadcast all over Dublin during a recent by-election as the man who was Chairman of the Committee going to solve the housing problem.  That statement was certainly made by very influential people in Government quarters. I believe that the country is entitled to know what actually is the housing policy of the Government and immediately that the Government should bring forward some kind of a Bill to enable local authorities to tackle the housing problem in a proper manner.  This is merely tinkering   with, what I think is, the most important problem this country is confronted with to-day.  To embark on housing schemes necessary for this country would not alone help to house people under decent conditions but would relieve unemployment all over the country.  This Bill is certainly not a Housing Bill.  I think it is a nickname to call it so.  I hope the President will tell us what the policy of the Government in the very near future is going to be so far as housing is concerned. 
     
      
       I believe this is the most important problem that this country has got to solve.  Bad housing, in my opinion, is the principal cause of tuberculosis and many other diseases which are so wide-spread at present.  I have had brought under my notice recently the serious position.  There are some 33 houses which were handed over by the Minister for Defence in the military barracks at Mullingar now to be given away.  There are 200 applicants for about 30 houses and each and every one of those are most deserving.  I came across an application yesterday where a man, woman and seven children were living in one room.  I came across several others almost as bad.  I am glad to say that I am not a member of the Board and that I have not to pick the 30 out of the 200.  As I have already described them they are really in a terrible position.  I strongly appeal to the President and the Government to try and do something more in connection with this housing problem which in my opinion is the most important one this country has got to face. 
     
     
      
       The terms of this Bill are disappointing in the extreme to anybody who had been looking forward to a serious effort on the part of the Government to solve this housing problem.  We have been led to believe that the Executive Council had really considered this question seriously and from public statements made in this House and outside of it people who are interested in this problem were justified in concluding that when a Housing Bill came to be introduced in this House it would be a Bill that would aim at the solution of the housing problem. 
     
     
        I have before me quite a number of extracts from statements by various people including the Minister for Local Government and the gentleman who was to solve the housing problem in the Saorstat, Deputy Vincent Rice.  I do not propose to go into all these statements. I shall refer the Government to just one extract from a statement by Deputy Rice at the by-election in North Dublin. 
     &ldquo;The Government had given an undertaking that they would take up this great programme the moment this election was over, and this great programme involved a housing scheme costing fifteen million pounds, spread over a period of ten years.&rdquo; 
     He stated that that was a definite programme.  I quite agree with Deputy Vincent Rice that that was a definite programme, but the Bill now before the House certainly does not make any attempt to give effect to that very definite programme that Mr. Rice outlined to the electors of North Dublin.  The upshot of all the promises that have been made is that no grant will be available under the Bill for any house that is not already in process of construction or that had not been in process of construction on Wednesday of last week.  Section 5 of this Bill amends the principal Act in the following manner: 
     &ldquo;The principal Act shall be construed and have effect and be deemed always to have had effect as if the following rules were inserted in the First Schedule to that Act in lieu of the rule now contained in that Schedule, that is to say:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;The erection or reconstruction of a house shall have been begun after the passing of this Act and not later than the 17th day of October, 1928, and shall have been completed before the 18th day of October, 1929.&rdquo; 
     That simply means that if the house is not already in process of construction no grant will be available.  The Bill states that the aggregate amount of the grants to be made under Section 3 of the principal Act shall not exceed the sum of eight hundred thousand pounds.  Six hundred thousand pounds   have already been spent, and apparently the other two hundred thousand pounds have already been allocated or must have been allocated before the 17th of the present month.  I think there are many public authorities throughout the country, and many private individuals who did not embark on the building or construction of houses pending the introduction of this Bill.  The very fact that they did not embark on the construction of houses means that they are going to be deprived of the facilities that even this Bill places at the disposal of the people who had started building before the 17th October. 
     I do not know whether there is any substance in this, but it is suggested that some people who were in a position to know what the terms of this Bill would be&mdash;some public authorities and some private individuals who were particularly well informed and belonged to a Party who knew what this Bill would be&mdash;started their houses before the 17th October, but those who did not know what the terms of the new Housing Bill were to be did not start the building of houses, and of course they will get no grant.  I do not know what substance there is in that statement, but I am very much afraid that there is some.  There is a great scarcity of houses in most of the urban areas throughout the country as well as in the city.  In the urban area that I come from a scheme involving the erection of 50 or 60 houses was begun last year.  Ten of these houses were erected. No steps were taken to continue that scheme pending the introduction of this Bill.  There are no houses now actually in the process of construction, and, so far as I can interpret Section 5 of this Bill, none of the £200,000 still available can be allocated to continue that scheme. 
     The Minister for Local Government seems to forget that, as well as being Minister for Local Government, he is also Minister for Public Health.  I think in matters of public health one of the most important considerations for any Minister of Public Health is the question of housing.  A lot of the effort and expenditure on public health questions at the present time, and on the   treatment of disease, is wasted by reason of the housing conditions under which the poor have to live.  I think the Minister for Local Government ought seriously to take that side of the public health question into consideration, because he is not going to make much headway in his public health programme otherwise.  He may have all kinds of avenues to the treatment of disease, but until he devotes more of his attention to the very evident causes of disease he is working in a vicious circle. 
     The President may say that there is no money evailable for a larger advance or for a more ambitious housing scheme than is outlined under this Bill. I suggest for his serious consideration that the solution of this problem does not rest entirely in the matter of grants.  Take, for example, one of those four-roomed houses for which a grant of £80 is available.  Under the Schedule of the 1925 Act such a house can be built for, roughly, £280 or £290.  A loan of £200 has to be raised from the bank, and I think the longest-term loan that can be got from a bank at the present time would be fifteen years. The interest on that would be four and a half per cent.  Such a house cannot be let at an economic rent at the present time.  What is actually happening is that when these houses are built they are in great demand, but not by those whom we know as the ordinary labouring classes. 
     They are in great demand by public officials, clerical staffs and that class of the community&mdash;that is to say people who have a reasonable income.  But when the demand of that class of the community comes to be satisfied, when sufficient houses have been built to satisfy their demands, you are not any further on in the solution of the housing conditions of the poor than you were at the start.  Deputy Good was on the same line in that regard.  You have built houses the rents and rates of which will run from eight to ten shillings a week.  Any man of common sense will agree that a labouring man getting 30/- per week cannot occupy houses at a rent of 8/- or 9/- per week. He cannot be expected to keep a wife   and family or to keep himself without a wife and family on the balance of the 30/- per week.  So that that solution of the matter is not going to get you much further.  Personally I believe that until the long term loans are restarted that the housing problem will not be solved.  Under the old regime that preceded the President and his Party over there, loans were available for terms of fifty to sixty years at 31⁄2 per cent.  Under these conditions it was possible to build houses that could be let at an economic rent.  I do not think it will be possible to restore such favourable conditions for obtaining loans as those were.  But it is in that direction I think that the solution of the housing problem will lie. 
     I do not know whether the Executive Council would consider if there is not money available for these long term loans by the Board of Works approaching the banks and telling the banks that they would not be allowed to hold up national development, that the banks would have to advance money to the public authorities at reasonable security for a reasonable term of years and at reasonable interest.  There is just one point in connection with the remission of rates.  I think it was in Section 7 of the principal Act.  That is a matter to which I would like to draw the President's attention.  It is generally understood by the ordinary man in the street who does not understand the intricacies of a Bill passed through this House, that the rates or part of the rates on these houses will be remitted for a number of years on a sliding scale, 95 per cent. of the rates the first year, 90 per cent. the second year and so on, so that 20 years will have elapsed before the full rates have to be paid. So far as I know, private individuals who have built houses and got grants for the purpose are not getting the advantage of that section.  I quite understand that a petition can be sent to the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if the local authority does not remit the rates.  But it would be better to take that section out of the Bill altogether&mdash;either to give them a remission of the rates or not to give them a remission of the rates, but do not allow them to think that they are   to get a remission if in actual fact when the house is built they are not to get the remission. 
     
      
       I want to say a few words on this matter.  I think we ought to realise at the very outset that this Bill which is now before us might be called a Bill to wind up the House-Building Facilities Act, that instead of making any further provision for houses or enabling us to make any further provision for housing that it enables the Government not to make any further provision for housing.  It is not a Housing Bill.  It is a Bill to stop house-building.  I think the Dail ought to realise that.  As I see it, the position is that when the original Act was passed a sum of £300,000 was provided by the Oireachtas, and when that amount had been expended another Bill was brought in and a further sum of £300,000 was provided. That amount was fully allocated early this year, and many people who had started the building of houses in the belief that the money was available and that they would get a grant just the same as their neighbours, proceeded to build their houses only to be informed that there was no money available from which they could get a grant.  The matter was raised in the House here, and the Government promised that they would bring in a measure seeking for the money to provide a grant for those people who had built in the belief that the money was available. 
       This Bill asks for a sum of £200,000. Of course, that does not necessarily mean that the £200,000 will be spent.  It might not mean that even £50,000 would be spent, because so far as I can understand the Bill, no person other than a person who had started to build his house before the 17th of this month will get any grant.  I think that is a great pity because I contend that the House-Building Facilities Act did achieve a very good purpose. 
     
     
      
       Hear, hear! 
     
     
      
       According to the figures given by the President when this Bill goes through and when all the houses under these schemes have   been built there will have been erected between 16,000 and 17,000 houses for a cost to the State of £800,000.  I am sure that most of the Deputies in the House who travel through the country will have noticed new houses of a very good type springing up all over the country in place of the old tumbledown thatched houses that were in the country before.  This applies with great force to the rural areas.  I think it is a great blunder on the part of the Government not to continue the House-Building Facilities Act and give these grants to the people to encourage them to build houses for themselves. They should continue these grants until such time as they are able to go forward with this great national scheme if they are ever to go forward with it.  But if we cannot have a fifteen years' scheme costing £10,000,000, at least let us go on doing something. Let us provide the money and give encouragement to people who are anxious to build.  If I do not mistake, the Minister for Finance a few months ago stated in this House that not only was it the intention of the Government to introduce legislation to enable them to give grants to those who had decided to build houses in the belief that the money was available, but he also stated that it was his intention to introduce a Bill to continue the giving of grants, but he intimated that the grants would be smaller than they were under the original Act. 
     
     I think that if the Minister makes a promise here in this House that that promise should be kept, for otherwise it is very hard for the Dail to carry on or to accept anything that a Minister may say.  I do not know whether the President is in a position to state what are the intentions of the Government regarding housing policy, or whether he has considered the report of the Committee on Unemployment in that connection.  I do not know that he has, because I am not aware that the Joint Committee set up has as yet reported to the Government.  If they have done so they have not said anything about it.  This scheme, which has proved very beneficial and which has, at a comparatively small cost, succeeded in giving to the country 16,000   or 17,000 houses should not be dropped in this way. 
     
      
       I rise to impress upon the Government the necessity of building smaller houses.  I, too, would like to paint the same rosy picture for the workingman as Deputy Corish has painted.  I would like to see five-roomed houses and nice gardens for the workers, but we all know, as Deputy Good informed the House, that when these houses are completed they charge 16/- and £1 a week for them. The class of workman in Dublin who requires a house cannot pay a rent of 16/- or £1.  I will quote for the President an example which he himself has very often quoted with pride.  All Dubliners feel proud when they look back on the work of the Dublin Artizans' Dwellings Company, the splendid two, three and four-roomed cottages that were erected and that are now housing very decent working-class people.  If you want to find out where they are visit the avenues adjoining Seville Place, in the parish of St. Laurence O'Toole.  You will see two-roomed houses in the Fourth Avenue, three-roomed houses in the Third Avenue, four-roomed houses in the Second Avenue, and five-roomed houses in the First Avenue.  All these places contain the decentest people it is possible to meet, and they are rearing good families.  I support the President in the policy he adopted in the past, when he approved of the building programmes of the Dublin Artizans' Dwellings Company. 
     
     As far as I am concerned, I speak on behalf of the people who live in North Cumberland Street, Gloucester Street and Gardiner Street.  There are houses there in North Cumberland Street containing sixteen families.  Some of these houses fell down some years ago and others had to be condemned within the past few years.  The unfortunate families occupying rooms in those places were then obliged to live in single rooms with as many as eight or ten flights of stairs to climb in order to reach those rooms, and the only accommodation they had was one lavatory in the back yard.  If I could get   two or three-roomed cottages for the average Dublin tenement dweller, a cottage with a hall door, a little yard and a lavatory, I would be doing a good day's work for the city of Dublin. A suitable rent would be five shillings, six shillings or seven shillings a week.  There were three-roomed houses built in Drumcondra recently and they were set at ten shillings a week.  The Dublin City Commissioners have had before them practically 11,000 applications for three-roomed houses.  I am prepared to support any policy that will give two, three or four-roomed houses. 
     We all know the conditions of labour in Dublin to-day.  The best of our tradesmen are on half-time, and there are others drawing a miserable dole. There are others still with nothing at all and they are depending upon the St. Vincent de Paul Society or the Roomkeepers' Society.  They are living in single rooms, and the rents in these rotten tenements are four shillings and five shillings a week.  Within the past six months I brought a member of this House to see where people were living in an underground apartment, twelve feet below the level of the road, and where the daylight cannot penetrate.  The unfortunate family living in that place pays 7/6 a week for that apartment.  If I could get a two-roomed cottage or a three-roomed cottage for that family, even though it would be a shilling or two more, I would be very glad indeed. 
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Corish painted a very rosy picture of the pretty garden round the cottage, the green grass in front and the ivy round the door.  I would like to see that all realised for the unfortunate dwellers in our tenements.  I appeal to the President to see if he can induce the Dublin Artizans' Dwelling Co., no matter what the subsidy may be, to start building operations again.  If he can induce them to build two-roomed cottages and three-roomed cottages to house those people it will be a great step in the right direction.  I would be very glad indeed to see them living   under the same conditions as the people in the avenues that I have referred to. 
       As regards housing in Dublin, I want to know what is going to happen in the near future.  In the Dublin tenement districts, the Coombe, Gloucester Street and Gardiner Street, there are sixteen-roomed houses, and there are also derelict sites there.  Are these sites to be left as eye-sores?  Would it not be well if decent flats were erected and let at reasonable rents, gardens or no gardens? What was the demand made for the flat accommodation recently constructed in some of the city barracks? Is it not a fact that there were fully 1,000 applications for every room vacant?  I would ask the Dail to support any policy that will give that class accommodation. 
     
     As far as the rates are concerned, I thought I saw in this Bill that the matter was optional and that the local authorities can grant a relief of rates which will be a great encouragement to the good class person, a clerk or mechanic in constant employment.  It will give such a man a better opportunity of buying his own house.  A remission of rates is certainly a great encouragement. I am aware that a number of people were disappointed in Dublin, Cork and Waterford.  Houses were built there, and the small builders got a grant.  The tenants going in thought that they would get a remission of rates because under the 1925 Act people who got a grant also got a remission of rates.  I would ask the President to do something for those people who were disappointed and who considered that they would get the same conditions as those who built their houses three years ago.  In the Phibsboro' district private builders were building a rather nice class of five-roomed house.  The people there thought they would get relief from rates, knowing at the same time that a grant was given for the building of the houses.  They based their belief on the grounds that those who built under the 1925 Act obtained relief in the matter of rates and had a grant also given.  I would ask the President to consider the case of those people in Phibsboro'.  To give you an idea of how bad things are in Dublin, I will read portion of a letter which I received to-day: &ldquo;I regret that Wm. Phair is   not eligible, in as much as he has only seven in family.&rdquo;  Because a man has only seven in family he cannot get a Corporation cottage. 
     
      
       He would not have much accommodation for them in a three-roomed house. 
     
     
      
       Cannot something be done for cases like that? 
     
     
      
       As other Deputies have pointed out, this is a Bill which the Dail cannot refuse to pass, no matter how unenthusiastic they may be over it.  The Bill is for the purpose of enabling the Government to carry out a promise which it gave with respect to the building of houses after the amount allocated by the 1926 Act has been expended.  I thought, however, that we would be entitled to expect from the President when introducing this Bill a much fuller statement concerning it than that which he gave. This Bill relates only to houses, the construction of which was commenced prior to Wednesday last, and the Dail, I think, could be informed, and is certainly entitled to ask, how the figure of £200,000 was arrived at.  The Government must, or should, know by this the exact number of houses to which the Bill relates, the exact amount of its liability in relation to these houses and should give that information to the Dail. 
     
     I wonder is there any foundation for the suspicion which was mentioned by one of the Labour Deputies that that £200,000 is only there for political purposes and that that sum will not be required or could not be expended under this Bill.  I hope that the President will endeavour to remove that suspicion and will assure us that the full number of houses which that £200,000 represents are under construction and were commenced prior to the 17th October.  I listened with considerable interest to the speech which we heard from Deputy Good.  Deputy Good asked that Deputies on this side of the House should approach this problem of housing in a serious manner and endeavour to bring forward constructive proposals in relation to it.  I was very much surprised to note that Deputy   Good confined that request to this side of the House and that he did not, before addressing us at all, make that request to members on the Ministerial Bench.  The President has told us that this Bill marks the end of the Government's present housing policy but he did not tell us what their future housing policy is going to be.  I thought that Deputy Good and other Deputies would be much more anxious to hear what the future housing policy of the Executive Council in office is than they would be to hear what the possible housing policy of the Party in Opposition would likely be. 
     The President gave no hint as to whether the Government have any future housing policy or if they have, along what lines it is likely to develop. We can, perhaps, assume from what he said that they are satisfied that the lines on which they were working heretofore were not the best.  If they were the best, undoubtedly, they would not change them but the fact that they propose to change their policy is, I think, an indication that they are not satisfied with the results of that policy. Of course, they could not be satisfied. They have produced, the President said, some fourteen thousand houses and this Bill will result in the production of another two thousand or two thousand five hundred.  We know that the construction of houses has barely kept pace with the growth of the problem and that, in fact, the problem has been growing more rapidly than houses have been built. 
     We have had figures produced in the report of the Unemployment Committee which show that since 1922 the number of families living in single rooms and tenement houses in Dublin has actually increased.  It is, therefore, quite obvious that some change in the Government's housing policy is urgently needed, but we would be much more interested to hear what that change is going to be and along what lines the Government are going to act in future.  I do not think that it is necessary that we here to-day should, and in this manner state our views in respect of this problem.  We have had a rather satisfactory announcement   from the President at the opening of to-day's session to the effect that he is proposing to establish a committee to examine the whole economic conditions of the country in relation to the problem of unemployment.  We will have no hesitation in putting in detail before that committee our views on any of these problems and on the manner in which the solution of them could, in our opinion, be best found. 
     The fact that is worrying me, however, at the moment, is that a general impression was conveyed, not merely in this House, but throughout the country and particularly in Dublin, that the Government had actually another housing policy carefully thought out and ready to be put into operation.  Anybody, for example, who took the trouble of reading the speeches made by Ministers in a recent by-election in Dublin City could not but have received that impression.  The Deputy who was elected on that occasion was very definite about it himself.  Some of his remarks have already been referred to, but there is one statement made by him to which I would like to refer particularly, not because it concerns him, but because it concerns the Government. With regard to the report of the Unemployment Committee of which he was chairman he said: &ldquo;They recommended that the Government should undertake a continuous housing programme at a cost of £15,000,000, spread over ten years.  That was a definite programme.  The Government had given an undertaking to him that they would take up this great programme the moment this election was over.&rdquo; Deputy Rice stated definitely that he had received an undertaking from the Government that a definite programme, involving a capital sum of £15,000,000 spread over ten years, would be embarked upon by the Government immediately that particular by-election was over. 
     That by-election was held in March last.  Those of us who opposed the election of Deputy Rice did not, of course, place much reliance on the promises made to secure his election.  We did expect however, that when the question of housing would be debated in the Dail, Deputy Rice would have had the   common decency to be present.  In view of the fact that he was elected because he was the Chairman of the Unemployment Committee, and because he gave that promise of ten years' work on housing, we thought that when a Bill of this kind, or any Bill dealing with housing, would be under discussion here, he would come and, even if he did not participate in the debate himself, at least listen to what would be said about it.  Deputy Rice, however, is not here, and I do not think that he will be here after the next general election either.  I would like, however, to ask the President, in his reply, to state if, in fact, the Government did give an undertaking to Deputy Rice prior to that by-election that such a programme of housing would be embarked on, and, if not, did they at any time endeavour to restrain Deputy Rice from making similar statements during the course of that election campaign?  One or two other matters have been raised in the course of this debate which we think call for very careful consideration.  I feel inclined to agree with Deputy Corish that you do not solve the housing problem by building three-roomed houses.  I agree with Deputy Alfred Byrne that if we cannot get any solution of the slum problem except by building three-roomed houses, then let us build them. 
     I agree with Deputy Good that the Government do not appear to be sufficiently interested in the problem of the slum dwellers.  We are going to discuss as the next item on the Order Paper to-day, a Censorship of Publication Bill.  I would ask Deputies to realise that all the evil literature that was ever printed or will be printed could not do one half as much damage to public morals and public decency as the continuance of the conditions which at present exist in the slums of Dublin.  When you have 78,000 people&mdash;I think that figure is correct&mdash;living in single-roomed tenement dwellings, with people of both sexes eating, living and sleeping in one room, you cannot expect to have a proper outlook upon life existing amongst that portion of your population, and that portion of your population constitutes almost one-fourth of the entire population of the capital of the country.  This problem   of the slums in Dublin must be tackled, but it must be tackled in a national way.  I do not think that we will ever reach a solution of the problem merely by giving grants to encourage speculative builders to build houses.  It is a State problem and must be tackled by the State.  It must be tackled as any other big national problem would be tackled. 
     It will require at least the £15,000,000 referred to by Deputy Rice, and it will take at least ten years to do it, but we must plan on that basis, plan to cover the whole problem and to start at once at the beginning of it.  We will not do it in the way the Government has been attempting to do it up to the present, voting £300,000 this year, £300,000 next year, and £200,000 two years later.  That piece-meal way of settling the problem will get us nowhere.  It will undoubtedly result in the building of extra houses, but it will not solve the housing problem.  That can only be solved by taking the problem as it exists, studying it as a whole and working out a solution that will enable a start to be made on the right lines.  I do hope that this committee which the President undertook to set up or some similar committee will sit down to examine the problem to the bottom, and that as a result of their recommendations a State scheme will be embarked upon.  The difficulties of the problem were not referred to by Deputy Good.  Deputy Good carefully avoided any specific reference to the main difficulties of solving the problem. We can easily reach agreement as to whether grants given under an Act of this kind should be greater for three-roomed houses than for five-roomed houses or vice versa.  That is a very small point in relation to the problem.  The problem as a whole relates in the first place to where is the money to be got, and secondly, are we going to get value for the money that we spend. 
     
      
       That is the first time that point was mentioned this evening. 
     
     
      
       I agree.  Deputies know that that is the kernel of the   problem, and if they carefully avoided referring to it it is not my fault. 
     
     
      
       I was afraid the Deputy was going to forget it. 
     
     
      
       I had no intention of forgetting it.  The other questions which were raised can, I think, best be dealt with by a committee such as I have referred to.  We cannot get a solution of the housing problem by debate in this House.  We can, however, indicate that we are willing to cooperate in the finding of a solution, and as far as such indication is required from these benches it is freely given.  This Bill must be passed undoubtedly, but let us have no illusions about it.  The only thing which might give the impression that this Bill is going to solve the problem of housing is its title.  It is not going to solve that problem.  It is not going to result in an extra sod of turf being turned for the purpose of building houses which have not already been started.  I do not think the President is trying to claim for the Bill more than he is actually entitled to, but we know that efforts will be made to represent it as being something more than it really is. In so far as it is going to result in the building of 2,500 houses, even at a cost which might not be absolutely necessary to produce that 2,500, we will support it.  It must go through, as faith must be kept with the people who actually commenced to build houses, but if we are going to find a solution of the problem it will be along entirely different lines to those upon which the Government has been working heretofore and which are enshrined in this Bill. 
     
     
      
       I want to express my dissatisfaction with this Bill.  In doing so I want to state that I do not approach it in any party or partisan spirit.  I think it is one of those measures which should be considered by all Parties in the House without any regard to party bias or feeling.  We should also keep out of the arena, for the time being at any rate, personalities in our various Parties, and not introduce anything of a partisan nature.  I   deprecate anything of that kind, and any comments I have to offer will be made in the best interests of the class I represent and in the direction of providing houses for those who are houseless at the moment.  I think it will be readily conceded and admitted that the need for housing is greatest amongst the working-class population.  Much has been said in this House as to what is taking place in Dublin in regard to housing.  I do not want to comment upon what is being done in Dublin, but I certainly do know what is being attempted in Cork.  We find that under the schemes of municipal building the original intention was to provide houses for the working classes, but when the houses were built they were sold at anything from £500 to £540, £640, or thereabouts.  I put it to any Deputy in this House how many working-class people do they know who can pay £500 or £600 out of their own pockets?  Personally I know very few, but that is the only solution we got in Cork at any rate of this housing question so far as it affects the working-class people. Those schemes of building houses of the six-roomed class have not very much effect in dealing with congestion, as it relates to the cities and towns of the Saorstat.  I have a certain measure of sympathy with the opinions expressed by Deputy A. Byrne, not that I believe that a two-roomed, three-roomed, or even a four-roomed house is sufficient to house any decent family consisting of a father, mother and three or four children, but because I believe the problem is so acute to-day that we have to seek the nearest, readiest and cheapest remedy. 
     
     I agree with Deputy Lemass that the herding together of families in single-room tenements has a more demoralising effect than the flood of evil literature coming into the country.  If Deputies are sincere, and are not speaking with their hands on their hearts and their tongues in their cheeks on some of these measures&mdash;and I believe some of them have been and will be in connection with the Evil Literature Bill&mdash;I would ask them to concentrate on this Bill which seeks to remedy the evil which will be dealt with in the Evil Literature Bill.  In doing so, I think they will   have done a useful day's work, not alone for the morals, but for the physical well-being of the country.  If further consideration were given to Section 5, the President would see that it is bound to inflict an injury on any people who made an attempt to build houses before the date mentioned in the Bill.  I know the case of a farmer who bought a farm adjacent to the City of Cork, and, understanding that this Act was still in operation, he brought materials there in order to begin building operations, but was informed that he would not be entitled to the grant. 
     
      
       What is the date? 
     
     
      
       Before the date mentioned in the Bill.  I ask the President to define what is meant by the beginning of building.  Would the beginning of building, according to the Bill, mean the time when the materials were brought to the ground or when the engineer drafted his plans?  If that proof were accepted of the beginning of a building, it would meet some cases I have in mind. 
       What I am mainly concerned with, however, and what the citizens of Cork are mainly concerned with, is the building of more houses at a cheap rental to suit the working classes.  We believe that that can only be obtained by long-term loans.  So far as Cork is concerned, where congestion exists to almost an alarming degree, we believe that to meet the economic circumstances of those requiring them, houses should be provided at from 7/- to 10/- per week. 
     
     
      
       How? 
     
     
      
       Apart altogether from the question of unemployment, in many cases wages have fallen to many degrees below the pre-war period. 
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy give some details of that statement? 
     
     
      
       I can, even in the Deputy's own industry.  So far as Deputy Good's side of the question is concerned, the cost of building materials remains largely the same.  I want to illustrate the situation as it relates to some members of the Irish Master Builders' Association.  I would   not have alluded to it but for the interruption of Deputy Good.  I can quote a case in Cork city&mdash;I can see the President smiling because he knows the case&mdash;where a number of Irish builders, of whom Deputy Good is such an ornament, tendered for a large number of houses.  I am sure Deputy Good will be at his wits' end to explain how there was such a disparity in the prices tendered by a number of Irish builders. The tender accepted was £10,000 lower than the next lowest, and something like £30,000 or £40,000 than the highest. I know it was a large sum, but I am going to confine myself to the £10,000. 
     
     
      
       £11,000. 
     
     
      
       It meant that an English contractor took the contract to build the houses at £70 per house less. I also want to emphasise what this English contractor was able to do. Possibly he was satisfied to do with less profit.  He was able to continue his labourers at work during the last four or five weeks when all the other building labourers were locked out by the employing builders.  I do not like to call them master builders, because they are not master builders.  These employing builders kept their unfortunate labourers and others walking the streets of Cork for some weeks, because the men would not subject themselves to a reduction in wages.  Yet, this English firm, who I am sure are not philantropists, were able to keep their men employed the whole time.  I also understand that they are perfectly satisfied that the men have given a decent return and that they themselves will have a decent return out of the contract.  I feel Deputy Good is not very pleased with himself for interrupting. 
     
     
      
       I hope I shall get an opportunity of replying to the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       I know Deputy Good does not like that kind of &ldquo;rubbing up&rdquo; at all. 
     
     
      
       When thieves fall out! 
     
     
      
       I want to express my dissatisfaction with the Bill.  I do not think that the President pretends that it is even a slight contribution to the building programme about which   we heard so much during the earlier part of the Session.  He cannot pretend that it is a contribution.  It does, of course, permit of certain amounts being granted.  I understand the figure is about £15 per room to speculative builders.  Speculative builders have built and sold houses, and I will admit have done something to solve the problem, and have incidentally given a good deal of employment.  I am not going to say that it would be a good thing to put the brake on their activities.  If they are able to make a profit and able to get buyers for their houses, they are doing something, at least, so far as the internal economy of the country is concerned, by giving employment on the one hand and getting buyers for their houses.  Each buyer must in turn vacate another house and thus make room for somebody else.  The whole kernel of the question is untouched as to the provision of houses for the humble labouring man with £2 10s. or £3 10s. a week. They are practically not catered for at all.  The artisan class is catered for in some way, but the humblest type of worker is not catered for so far as any of the building schemes that have emanated from Government Departments are concerned.  I hope that the President will do something in this Bill that will at least be tantamount to saving his face and that will at least make it appear that this is a serious contribution towards solving the housing problem of the country. 
     
     
      
       I welcome this Bill simply because it is named a Housing Bill.  In the rural districts the building of cottages is as dead as Julius Caesar.  We have not had a scheme for the building of cottages in my district since 1912.  People of that kind were promised houses and we had a scheme passed and everything would be all right until the big war broke out and blew up our scheme.  Now one is ashamed as a member of the Board of Health when a cottage becomes vacant because you would have five, twelve or fourteen applicants for that cottage which could only be given to one and all of those people are badly off and   need a house.  You are sure to fall out with the other twelve if you give it to one of the thirteen.  I know a family in my district numbering thirteen in one room&mdash;a father, mother and eleven children.  I welcome the housing scheme for three-roomed houses.  I am not prepared like Deputy Anthony and Deputy Alfred Byrne to be able to suggest the payment of five or six shillings a week for three-roomed houses.  Seeing that the wages in the rural districts are only 29/- a week I should think that the Boards of Health should be encouraged to take up schemes of labourers' cottages.  We can build three-roomed cottages with small plots. Labourers' would guarantee to pay twice the rent they are paying now for the bigger house and bigger plots. That will go to show the real necessity in the rural districts for a housing scheme. 
     
     There is another section of the community in the rural districts that seem altogether to be forgotten.  I suppose it was because they had not as good leaders as the labourers and that class is the small farmers under £10 valuation. They are a lot worse housed than those other people.  They have the most insanitary houses in the whole bunch, more insanitary even than the houses described by Deputy Alfred Byrne.  I only ask in the interests of the rural areas that we get some powers to start labourers' cottages on old lines.  We will accept three-roomed cottages with smaller plots at a rent that will be economic, having regard to the wages paid in the particular areas which are 29/- a week without any perquisites, and many of them at 7/- or 8/- a week beneath that rate.  I think 2/- a week would be a good rent if we could get three-roomed cottages and there is a longing for them by the people in the rural areas.  These people would be a lot better off than sleeping in sheds in which they are compelled to live at the present moment.  I sympathise with the people whom Deputy Anthony speaks for with 50/- or £3 or £3 10s. a week, but I have more sympathy with the poorer people with only £1 a week and with very large families.  There are a lot of families in my district and they are fully qualified to take up such   cottages but they cannot get houses at all.  I think it is the bounden duty of the Government to take up this matter and to see that schemes of labourers' cottages on the old lines will be immediately started again. 
     
      
       As the few points that I intended to make in connection with this debate have been made by Deputy Daly, I can only amplify some of them.  I was very sorry to notice that the President, in moving the Second Reading of this measure, made such a brief statement.  All of us in this House who have had experience of discussions on housing matters in the last four or five years are agreed that the President is an authority on the subject.  We agree also that the question is one of great interest to him, and I am very sorry that his statement this afternoon was such a short one.  There were many things some of us would like to have explained, and we have now to make certain points in the hope that when the discussion is concluding certain matters which are not at all clear now will be cleared up by the President. I must express my amazement at the provision in this Bill excluding applicants that have not made a move in the matter of building before the 17th October.  I can imagine very easily the consternation that will be caused down the country by that provision.  I am afraid some of us in this House, by reason of the impression we got from replies to questions put in the last three or four months will be more or less responsible for that confusion.  The view in the country is, at the moment, that there was no use in proceeding with the work of building houses until the grants were available and until a definite step had been taken in the introduction of this Bill.  Rightly or wrongly, that is the view in the country at the moment, and I should plead very strongly with the President to go into this whole question and see if something could not be done to meet people who are ready to proceed with the building of houses in the near future and who, unfortunately, have been misled in connection with the whole matter. 
     
     I remember when the Housing Act of   1924, and I think the Housing Act of 1925, were before this House, the plea being made by Deputies for the insertion of a clause in connection with the reconstruction of houses in the rural areas.  I think that the President, who spoke on that occasion, said that the difficulty was that the number of cases that could be successfully dealt with altogether would not warrant all the expense that would be maintained in the work of necessary inspection. 
     If one fact has been borne out stronger than any other on us who represent rural constituencies, it is the need for doing something in that direction. The number of small farmers to whom a grant of £70 or £80 would not be enough in the matter of putting up a house, and who could make successful improvements in their houses if they were permitted to avail of a reconstruction clause, is very large.  I do suggest that in any housing policy embarked on by the Government that aspect should be considered.  There may be cases where the expenses would not be warranted, but on the whole I believe an experiment of that kind would justify itself entirely.  I have in mind a number of small towns in the country where the rate of wages is not very great.  Thirty-five shillings would be the average wage paid to a county council employee where I come from, and that would, to some extent, represent the standard wage in the small towns.  I feel where people have the benefit of the grants given in previous Acts the rents charged for the houses have been too high.  They have been built by the assistance of Government grants and loans from the local authority, but are to a great extent out of the reach of the person who has to confine himself to the limits of a wage such as I have mentioned.  This, I hope, does not, as the President said, represent the end of the housing policy.  It might represent the end of a particular programme in housing.  I suggest that Deputy Lemass struck the right note when he said that the housing question should be taken on entirely broader lines and with an entirely more progressive outlook.  I have had experience of the working of the Housing Acts of 1924 and 1925, and I would like to bear   tribute to the great change that they have effected in a great many small towns.  I know in the small town in which I live the whole appearance of the place has been changed in the last five years.  In that respect also I would like to pay tribute to the officers engaged in carrying out this Act.  As to the officials and inspectors of this Department, I can say with entire truth that their idea has been to have the houses built, and they have got over small technical difficulties on every occasion they could.  They have carried out the spirit of the housing policy with the machinery at their disposal in a very generous and sympathetic way.  I would like to see far more progress in housing at the present time.  The President a while ago echoed the query as to where the money is to be found.  I realise there are difficulties, but when we consider all the money that has to be found in this as in other countries from year to year in combating disease due to bad housing we ought to be able to devise ways and means of finding that money and spend it in preventing disease rather than combating it when it has broken out. 
     The question of labourers' cottages is of very considerable importance.  I know in my county at the moment initial steps have been taken towards formulating schemes for the building of labourers' cottages.  If this disqualifying clause for people who have not moved in the matter of building houses applies to local authorities as well as to private individuals then our scheme for the building of labourers' cottages cannot be proceeded with and this in itself is very serious.  Deputy Daly is perfectly right when he says that large numbers of applicants canvass and implore members of the Board of Health on every occasion when cottages have to be let.  In a certain case of that kind before the Board of Health in Cork no less than eighteen applicants, all married men with families, were looking for the tenancy of a vacant cottage. 
     There is just one class of people in the rural areas that I hope some provision will be made for.  I have before me a case illustrating the need for   doing something for these people who cannot avail of this or another housing policy on similar lines.  It is a case of a small farmer in the western part of my constituency.  A teacher who has interested himself on his behalf wrote a letter to say that the West Cork Board of Health recently warned him to put his house in sanitary condition. &ldquo;He is wretchedly poor,&rdquo; he states, &ldquo;and his cabin roof threatens to come down over their heads any moment. The house contains no window and in daylight is pitch dark.  He has a wife and six children.  To prevent a possible tragedy I am asking the West Cork Board of Health to give some help towards putting a corrugated iron roof at his disposal.  In the meantime, I am wondering whether we could get any aid for him towards a new house through the building scheme or through the Land Commission.&rdquo; 
     That is the case of a large number of people in the poorer areas and in the congested areas.  That type of case is no less urgent than the cases that have been referred to in the more populous and congested areas of the cities and bigger towns.  I would like to express my dissatisfaction that this Bill does not go at all as far as we think it ought to go.  Before the debate on the Bill closes I think we should have a fuller statement from the President as to the possibility of doing a great many more things that are to be done in the more progressive policy we are going to embark on. 
     
      
       This discussion reminds me of the old Irish phrase, &ldquo;beirt ar aon aigne agus iad ag troid.&rdquo;  Everyone in this House is agreed that the housing problem is in a serious state, and I am sure every Party in this House would be only too glad to give the President every aid possible towards procuring the money. We realise that everyone is anxious to solve the problem, but undoubtedly the provision of the money is a very serious stumbling block.  Perhaps it would be no harm to point out a few facts.  I listened with great sympathy to Deputy Murphy, Deputy Daly and Deputy Corish when they were dealing with the position of the small man.  In   the rural areas and in the smaller towns the problem of letting the houses at what would be an economic rent is a very serious one indeed. Seven shillings a week may be an economic rent in Dublin, but in the district with which I am quite familiar five shillings or even four and sixpence would not be an economic rent. Tradesmen in the smaller towns may earn ten shillings a day, but their week as a rule consists only of three or four days, so the rents that would be satisfactory for a man in steady employment at ten shillings would not be at all satisfactory for a man whose work is of a sporadic nature.  There is one aspect of the problem that perhaps attention might be directed to in connection with the labourers' cottages in the rural districts.  The Board of Health I was connected with, time and time again, had applications from the occupants of labourers' cottages for the addition of an extra room.  If we cannot get a four or five-roomed cottage, and I agree with Deputy Corish that four and five rooms are as essential for a labouring man as any other, at least we might endeavour to provide an extra room in the cottages we have. I received an application lately from a man somewhat in the position of the man described by Deputy Daly, a man with a very large family living in a three-roomed house.  He inquired if the Board of Health could build him an additional room.  The Board of Health had to refuse.  Could not facilities be granted to the Board of Health to provide extra rooms in such cases?  The position in the rural areas is far worse than in the towns, because no effort is being made to cope with it.  As Deputy Daly pointed out, no cottage scheme has been in operation since 1912.  and the result is that there are practically no houses available now.  It is a pity that in some places, at all events, some effort was not made to avail of workhouse buildings.  In County Waterford there are three immense buildings going to ruin.  Some Deputy pointed out that if buildings of this nature could be reconstructed and let out in flats at reasonable rents, it would, to some extent at least, solve the most pressing portion of the problem   in many areas.  In my town there is a magnificent building going to ruin. The County Council refused to keep it in repair.  Their argument is that the building is empty, and that they fail to see the necessity of putting an extra charge on the rates to keep it in repair. The building is capable of accommodating, probably, twenty families.  An expenditure of a few hundred pounds would render it suitable for occupation as flats.  It would not be a very expensive undertaking, and it is a pity to see a magnificent building going to ruin when a very little expenditure would save it.  In the town from which I come we built two houses and, exercising every economy, we were unable to let them at a less rent than seven shillings a week.  We could not build more houses at that rate.  The people who required the houses most could not afford to pay a rent of seven shillings a week.  As I said, in my opening statement, any help that we can give to solve this problem we shall be glad to give, because we all realise the very serious nature of it. 
     
     
      
       I would like to support the Government in carrying through this measure as far as it goes. I am only sorry that the measure does not go further, and it does not go half far enough.  I admit frankly that the Government has done a great deal to alleviate this evil of want of proper accommodation for the people.  We want an extension, not only of two-roomed houses, but of three, four and five-roomed houses.  I agree with what Deputy Corish stated, that there is no use in increasing the number of two-roomed cottages, because I believe there is a far greater need for four or five-roomed houses.  I do not think it is good, either from a sanitary point of view or from the point of view of decency, that any man with a family should be put into a three-roomed house.  Where a man has a mixed family I do not think that should be done.  I know of cases where several families have engaged one room in large tenement houses, and they have each been living in a corner, perhaps four people in each, with the lady who owned the room living in the centre in a sort of tent.  That can only conduce   to two things&mdash;bad sanitary conditions and immodesty and indecency.  I want to say, as far as money spent in this direction is concerned, it would be money well spent, because there would be much less money spent in insurance and in sick pay, and there would be very much less money spent in treating people who were suffering from disease that arises from living in insanitary houses.  The Germans are a very wise people, and many years ago the insurance companies in Germany discovered that it would be a very much cheaper proposition to build large sanatoria for their consumptive people than to attempt to give them sick pay.  They found that it would be a cheaper thing in the end, because the men are sent back at an earlier date to their work, and less sick pay has to be paid.  I know that the President is very sympathetic, and that he is willing to do all he can in this direction.  I know that he finds difficulty in raising the money, but where the will to raise the money exists it can be found.  It has been found in the past on an occasion when, in my opinion, it was wasted.  Money to raise an army to quell civil rebellion had to be found.  It is a more necessary expenditure to build decent houses for the people to live in.  If you have a number of people living together in small insanitary houses, and if an epidemic of an infectious disease occurs, it spreads like wildfire amongst these people, and in many cases infectious diseases are accompanied by certain complications that lead to permanent disablement.  The result is that you have permanently disabled people thrown upon the Government for their support. 
     
     I have spoken on several occasions about the evil consequences that arise from people living in damp, underground kitchens, and of the number of illnesses that arise from this condition; I am not speaking now about even the city.  I wish to see houses for the poor increased in large numbers in the rural districts as well as in the towns.  I know more, perhaps, about the evils that arise from living under insanitary conditions in the city than   in the rural districts, but I quite agree with my friend Deputy Daly when he says that there is a class of people who are unable to provide any sort of decent sanitary accommodation, and that is the small farmers.  In my opinion they are housed in a most miserable condition, and the surroundings of their little houses or cottages are anything but sanitary.  I merely rose to support the Government in so far as the measure goes, and to suggest to them that it would be money well spent to try and do a great deal more than they are attempting to do. 
     
      
       I feel rather surprised at the trend that this debate has taken, particularly when I had in mind two things.  One is that we had a definite statement from the President on the 24th May in a debate similar to this, that the housing question, as far as the Government were concerned, was not a national question.  The President, in answer to a question by Deputy Davin, said the Government was not prepared to carry every baby in this country.  Others can carry their own babies.  It was in connection with the Committee set up to deal with unemployment, and from whom it was expected some suggestion would come that would help to alleviate the distress amongst the unemployed, and at the same time bring about some progress in connection with this question of housing.  We on these benches realise all the difficulties that would confront any government, particularly when the housing problem is so acute as it is in this country.  The position, as I say now, is that this Bill is introduced&mdash;I am saying this subject to correction&mdash;to enable plans that are already advanced to a certain extent to be put into operation and carried out.  In other words, houses that cannot be completed because of the cessation of the grants are to be permitted to be completed under this Bill.  There is no intention, as far as I can see, of the Government taking up the housing question at all.  I may say that the Government have been quite frank and honest in stating that this is a problem that even now they are not prepared to deal with.  The Bill provides for £200,000 to enable the building   of 2,500 houses.  Deputy Sean T. O'Kelly pointed out, and it is not disputed, that there are 20,000 families living in single rooms in tenements in Dublin City alone.  If all the money that is now being provided by this Bill were used to alleviate some of the distress caused by the housing shortage in Dublin it would only be able to accommodate 2,500, and there would be 17,500 as before. 
     
     When this money is to be divided up between twenty-six counties, how much per county are you going to be able to allot and how much is each county to benefit even to the extent of labourers' cottages?  The position, as I see it, is that it is really a waste of time for Deputies to get up in this House and to talk about distress in Gloucester Street or Phoenix Street or the Coombe and pointing out about distress in rural areas through want of housing accommodation. I do not think we are facing up to the situation.  The position is that the Government find themselves to-day not able to cope with this particular danger that is threatening the health of the country in general.  As Deputy Sir James Craig has pointed out, the health of the nation depends on its housing accommodation.  We are not facing up to this aspect of it. This is one of the subjects that we should tackle as a national problem. Note the inconsistency of the Government. They satisfy themselves that there is an immediate need for the generation of electric power in the country and they provide up to £7,000,000 for the establishment of a scheme which will supply power to help industry.  But they do not see that the same urgency, or in fact greater urgency, exists with regard to the housing problem.  They do not face up to the problem in the same way, and say that this money must be got and that the scheme must be put into operation. Deputy Good, of course, has one particular outlook as regards the Bill.  I believe Deputy Good feels that if the wages of labourers and tradesmen were reduced everything would be fine and plenty of houses would be built if we had cheap labour.  But in the building of houses, there is more than wages. What about the cost of materials?   When the Committee sat to consider this question, they got down to brass tacks with the labour people whom they met and with whom they could not agree.  Why did they not also call into consultation the suppliers of the building materials? 
     
      
       They did. 
     
     
      
       Why did not the Government consider the advisability instead of giving grants to the builders or to private enterprise for the building of houses&mdash;why did they not consider the advisability of supplying materials to the people who would build them, in the same way as when they took over control of the electricity business from beginning to end, from the generation of current to the supply of material, why did they not act in the same way in this matter of building materials? In this same way, they could take over the housing question in this country and if they could not get satisfaction between the employees and the builders, they could have taken it in hands themselves and set out to get supplies of materials which they could have bought in bulk, cheaper than these supplies are being bought from building suppliers whom we know here and about whom we have heard so much in this House? I do not know that there is any use pleading here for houses to be started and houses to be built.  All I can say is that I believe the individual Deputies realise the seriousness of the situation. Every Deputy realises it.  I believe if this particular matter of housing was left as a non-party question, if members from all parties could get together and try to suggest ways and means and go on with some kind of a scheme, and take into consideration every kind of person and every kind of trade affected, they would get a solution.  As I see it, there is no use in talking here.  The President has stated that the housing of the people of this country is a baby he is not going to carry.  There is no use for us to talk about houses being wanted here and cottages there when the Government are not going on with the house building at all.  I believe that this Bill is only for the purpose of fulfilling the schemes already planned. It is not a scheme framed to deal with   the successful solution of the housing question in this country. 
     
     
      
       I was very pleased to hear the almost unanimous opinion of the entire House to the effect, as the Deputies put it, that they would support the Government in carrying this Bill.  But the speech of the Deputy who has just spoken was like a shower of cold water down my back.  He had no thanks to the President for saving the lives of 2,500 familes, in taking them out of those wretched hovels in which they lived and putting them into decent houses.  The Deputy, I suppose, considers that that was not a step forward in the Saorstat. I tell him as representative of a constituency extending from Cork Harbour to Castletownberehaven, one of the most congested constituencies in the Saorstat that this Housing Bill is a measure that will be received there with acclamation.  I had occasion a short time ago to go to the Local Government Department, for the loan of an inspector to go down to that constituency. They cheerfully consented to send down the inspector and when they sent him down I accompanied him.  He sent up a report here with regard to housing in my constituency, a report that shows that the housing conditions there are as bad as the housing conditions in Dublin.  He said, and I can bear him out, that some of the houses in which the people live were not fit to house pigs. 
     
     Now when the President has come forward with a Bill to improve those conditions, and when we on the boards of health in the south of Ireland are hopeful that through that Bill we will get grants, these people realise that we are coming to their rescue in order to save them from the wretched surroundings in which they have lived. But it is rather disheartening when the President does this to find that he is only held up here in the pillory for what he is doing.  Nobody in the House but must admit that the President has not a great treasury behind him.  He has a limited command of the money.  We should realise that if he is to give grants these grants must be paid back by taxation on the people.   If he does not give grants, he is denounced, and if he gives grants he is also denounced for increasing the taxation.  Now he is denounced when he is proposing to build houses.  I pity the President, but I tell him here now to go on as he is going, to be of good heart, to continue his policy of helping the people of the Saorstat, and I have every hope and faith as he goes along that the Deputies on every side of the House will appreciate the difficulties and realise that side of the problem. And realising these difficulties, I hope they will nobly support him in the great scheme for social reform which he is endeavouring to carry out. 
     
      
       It is with great pleasure that I have listened to the speech made by Deputy Sheehy.  I hope that the President will continue his policy and amplify it a little more. I do not take this Bill before us as the last word in housing in this country. I think it is only carrying out the policy started in 1925 under the first Housing Act.  But it does not deal at all with the larger question of housing. I am sure the President will agree in that.  The question is a wide one, and it will tax the ingenuity of every Deputy in this House to put it into operation, so as to be of any use to the people.  I am in full agreement with Deputy Corish here that houses of less than five rooms should not be built.  I would only say that in very exceptional cases should we build four-roomed houses.  We all know the evils of small houses.  On one occasion, in examining a house in my constituency lately, I found in one room twelve by eleven feet, three beds.  I asked the woman of the house who slept in these beds.  I found that she and her husband slept in one; her son, aged 17, in another; and her daughter, aged 11, in the third.  If you want to do anything in the way of protecting the morals of our people I think you will have to strike at the root and the breeding ground of the immorality, if I may call it so, and unless you do this your Censorship of Publications Bill will be of very little use in improving the morals of the working people. 
     
     With respect to labourers' cottages, we all know the need for labourers'   cottages throughout the country, but many of our boards of health are only too much given to the idea that they can get rid of those they already have control of so as to throw the extra cost on the labourers, as they see that the ratepayers are losing by the upkeep of the buildings.  Let me ask some of the boards of health: Are not the labourers of the country good assets, and should not the ratepayers and the farming community be prepared to help them instead of driving them back on the roads and trying to deprive them of the benefits of an Act which the British Government, with all its faults, gave to this country?  The Act of 1925 provides that no grant will be given for a house with a larger floor area than 1,250 feet.  I think that in very exceptional cases the Minister should be empowered to give a grant in cases where the floor area is 1,600 square feet. There is in some parts of the country many a man with a modest income and a large family who may require a house with more than five rooms. When that man's occupation and income are taken into account I think the Minister should be enabled, if he thinks there is a genuine case for it, to give a grant to that person.  I am now speaking of a man anxious to build a house for himself.  I am not speaking of men who build houses for others. I think that point should be carefully considered and an addendum attached to the First Schedule giving power to the Minister in exceptional cases to give grants where the floor space is 1,600 square feet.  I hope on the Committee Stage that the Minister will be able to meet my views. 
     
      
       Before the President replies I wish to say that we have not learned very much in this discussion in spite of the number of speeches.  The only two speeches to which I could listen with any attention, outside that of my friend Deputy Sheehy, were those of Deputy Good and Deputy Briscoe.  Since 1922, according to the report of the Committee on Unemployment, 14,000 houses have been built, and 2,900 of these have been built in Dublin.  In the year 1922, in Dublin alone, there were 947 built.  That means that even in the City of Dublin,   where we are told there is a concentrated effort being made by the Government to build houses, there is actually a reduction instead of an increase in the number of houses being built. 
       We are told there were 14,000 houses built since 1922.  The fact that we are at present discussing a Bill which will enable us to build 2,500 houses more makes one ask the question whether there is a definite limit to the number of houses that can be built in this country.  Are we to understand from the brevity of the President's opening remarks that it is physically impossible for the Government, owing to trade and labour conditions, the lack of tradesmen and so on, to accomplish a larger building programme than that which they are now contemplating?  If that is so, if the difficulties in front of the Government are so great that it is impossible for them to produce the building programme that we all had expected, then surely it is time to let the House into the secret and let us know exactly what the difficulties are.  Not alone is it apparent that the number of houses being built is not increasing but there are indications that the housing programme begun in 1922 has now ended.  Then there was a concentrated campaign in improving the roads of the country but the Road Fund is now exhausted and there is not likely to be much more employment given from that source. The winter is coming on and it is all the more necessary that the Government should indicate whether there is any large building scheme to be presented in the near future. 
     
     I agree with Deputy Good with regard to the three-roomed houses.  I think that Deputies should go into this matter seriously, apart altogether from the question of politics, and I believe they will see if they do so that there is a definite bridge to be made up.  That ought to be the object of the House. That is the bridge between the houses at present being built in Marino, into which only civil servants or people with salaries of five or six pounds a week can go, and the other end of the problem, the tenants in places like Gloucester Street, where, for houses   that originally cost £50 they are paying now £150 rent.  The receipts are such that we are told the owner of houses there can afford to keep her sons in Paris or somewhere like that.  I agree with Deputy Good that the question of the slum problem will have to be examined more seriously.  There is no use in Deputies pretending that the building of houses in Marino provides a solution for the housing of the poor. It is no solution and if we are serious about the matter we will have to get down to the question of building materials, the question of costs, the acquisition of sites and a simple design of houses.  If we cannot get anything better than the three-roomed house to bridge the chasm between Gloucester Street and Marino, we ought to take it. 
     I believe that with better financing the Government should be able to do a great deal.  I think Deputies should devote special attention to the question of subsidies and the manner in which they are being paid.  Is the argument of Deputy Good, that £20 per room is not the best system, worthy of consideration? If the Government had so little opportunity or time to consider the matter during the past five years, they might well consider the alternative that Deputy Good has put up; that is, to concentrate on simpler houses which would benefit the rural areas as well as the city.  There are large numbers of comparatively poor people in the country districts anxious to go on with house-building, and that problem should be tackled separately from the slum problem in Dublin.  The country people as well as the slum people will be quite satisfied, and a scheme like that would go a long way towards relieving unemployment at the moment. The urgency of the situation would be relieved if the Local Government Department concentrated on turning out a simpler type of house.  There is a great deal of fault to be found with the present Government arrangements. I have here a communication from the Corporation of Kilkenny pointing out that the average cost of building a house, a four-roomed house with a scullery, is £414.  There is a grant of £70 towards that.  The rent of that house   would work out at 14s. 3d. per week. It is absolutely impossible for workers in Kilkenny to pay that.  The fact that that rent can be reduced and that better financing is possible is shown by the scheme which is at present in operation in the City of Belfast.  The houses there consist of a kitchen, scullery and three bedrooms with a small mangle space at the rear, with a combined bath and w.c. on the first floor, and with gardens front and rear.  There are garden plots leased to the purchasers of some of the houses at low rents.  These houses are being built at a cost of £370.  There is a Government subsidy of £100 and a Corporation grant of £40, so that the net price is £230.  The price in Kilkenny is £344. Therefore, there is a gap of £114.  A house in Kilkenny is nearly half as dear again as a house in Belfast.  Furthermore, when a house is built in Belfast there is a weekly rent of 8s. 5d., which not alone covers the payment of principle and interest, ground rent and fire insurance, but also includes the rates and the cost of collection.  A tenant in Belfast for a payment of 8s. 5d. per week can get what seems to me to be an immeasurably better bargain, and at the end of twenty-five years he will become the complete owner of his house.  He is able to get a much better bargain than the tenant in Kilkenny can get for 14s. 3d. per week. 
     If the President took up the matter seriously with the Commissioners and extended the borrowing powers of the Dublin Corporation and other municipal councils there would, I have no doubt, be a great possibility of our being able to imitate to some extent the valuable work done in Belfast.  At present, however, when building costs are so high, when the borrowing powers of the councils are limited, and, above all.  when loans can only be got for fifteen years at 41⁄2 per cent., it is almost impossible to see how anything can be done.  I had hoped that the President would have made a statement as to what extent the building conference which was held in Dublin under the chairmanship of Deputy Rice, had progressed.  If that conference were really serious, and if it had   all the different interests connected with housing represented before it, the information which was acquired by the Government through it, and the evidence submitted would be particularly valuable to all Deputies here.  I desire to support the request of Deputy Daly and other Deputies that more provision should be made for cottages in rural areas.  There is in the city a difficulty of building costs and of insufficient numbers of tradesmen, but in the country, as I have said, you have a very large number of people who, if they get reasonable facilities to build a simple design of house, and if they get reasonable financial facilities will themselves build.  I think, however, that, once and for all, we must get it out of our heads that we can make any progress in housing by means of such schemes as we have at present.  I hope when he replies that the President will throw a little more light on the subject than he has done so far. 
     
      
       I welcome the Bill, but I would much prefer the Government would face this very important subject in a different way.  I had hoped that the Government would embark on a very large building scheme involving a capital expenditure of anything approaching ten million pounds. As a Deputy, however, if I ask the Government to do that, I should also say that I, as a representative of an important constituency, should also be prepared to do my little share to help the Government in solving this pressing need, namely, the provision of suitable housing accommodation.  I would like Deputies to study the real facts of the situation and ask themselves whether it is a fact that houses built in the Free State are much dearer than in Great Britain or Northern Ireland, and ask themselves what are the reasons for the difference, if any.  I am of the opinion that there is a little difference between the cost of building houses in the Free State and the cost in Northern Ireland and Great Britain.  Somehow I am of the opinion that there seems to be an idea prevailing throughout the country on the part of employers engaged in the building industry that the building operatives are not giving of their best. 
     
     
        How far that statement is true I am not in a position to say, but this I will say, as Deputy Flinn said during the debate on the Censorship Bill, this country morally and physically is sound.  I say that the workmen who are engaged in the building industry are prepared to give of their best, if afforded an opportunity of doing so. It seems to me that those who are engaged in the building line are more or less trusting to a war of endurance, and have made up their minds not to proceed with the erection of houses until such time as wages come down somewhat.  That may be all right to a certain extent, but I am of opinion that there is grave danger, if that policy is pursued, that the great building industry will become a thing of the past.  At present there seems to be absolutely no prospect so far as the construction of houses is concerned. On the other hand, if it is a fact that those engaged in the building industry are not giving of their best, then the facts should be given, and I, in company with Deputy Derrig, would like to know the findings of the Committee set up to deal with this very important industry. 
     I would like to know what recommendations were made by the employers on one side and by the representatives of the workers on the other, and what was the reason of the failure of that conference, because it must have failed, for otherwise we would have had some result and statements would have been made here as to what the findings were.  I say in all sincerity that I believe that the time has arrived when those who are engaged in the building industry, both employers and employees, must give of their best if the housing question is to be solved.  I want to speak honestly on this point, because, as one who knows what it is to go out on a cold winter morning and taste a biting December blast, I am fully convinced that, unless there is hearty co-operation between employers and employed, unless that confidence to which we were accustomed some fifteen or twenty years ago is restored, there will be no houses provided for the working classes.  There is no use in Deputies saying that it is   absolutely essential for a working-class man to have a five-roomed house.  Do Deputies ever consider the cost of a five-roomed house?  It is almost impossible to erect a house of that kind for less than £700 or £800, and no workman can afford to pay the rent that would be charged for such a house. 
     I am wholeheartedly in agreement with Deputy Good when he states that it would be much better if we had a number of three-roomed houses erected in Dublin and all over the country than to have a large number of five-roomed houses erected and let at a rent that it would be almost impossible for any working man to pay.  Everybody knows that at present young married men with their wives are living in rooms in houses and have to pay from ten, twelve to fifteen shillings a week for one room.  Surely a three-roomed house even at a rent of 8/- or 10/- a week would be more suitable for people of that class than one room in a house, perhaps a tenement house.  This is really a question of finance.  We are not a big rich nation like Great Britain, and the sooner we realise that fact, the sooner we realise that this is only a State within Ireland, and that without co-operation between workers and their employers no progress can be made in the provision of houses, the better it will be for all concerned. 
     Another question that we should ask ourselves is, are we utilising to the fullest extent the natural resources of the country?  It is a remarkable fact that at the present time practically ninety per cent. of the materials used in the construction of houses are imported. We have let our quarries go derelict and to become filled with water.  At the present time, as far as counties Louth, Monaghan and Cavan are concerned, the whole of the northeast of the State, there is absolutely no brickyard.  I think the Government would do well if they took steps in the immediate future to set up in this country a few brickyards on a national scale, because everybody knows that, no matter what may be said as regards concrete houses, they are not exactly the desired article.  Bricks, as everybody knows, make a far drier house than concrete.  It is essential that the   Government should take steps in the immediate future to have a few brickyards started in the Free State so that those who are about to erect houses will be in a position to secure a supply of bricks.  So far we have got to import every brick used in the erection of these houses from England, or get them from Belfast.  I do not think that it is to the credit of the leaders of industry in this country to see that we have so many natural resources at our disposal and have made such little use of them. I hope and trust that the Government will, in the immediate future, embark upon a big housing scheme and that Deputies, no matter to what Party they belong, will give their support to that scheme, because I am convinced that no Government can settle this question unless they have the co-operation of all Parties in this House, backed up by the co-operation of the people in general throughout this State. 
     It is all a question of money, and for that reason I hope that the Government will be in a position in the near future, after consultation with officials of the Local Government Department and perhaps after consultation with Deputies here representing different Parties, to embark upon this housing scheme so that they can relieve this most pressing problem that confronts the people at present.  In embarking upon that scheme they will be achieving a twofold object.  They will be providing decent houses for the people and alleviating unemployment.  One goes with the other.  Everybody must agree that where there is no building there is no progress.  When building is going on in a town it is always a clear indication that that town is making progress. At the present time in the towns and villages of the Free State, building seems to be at an end.  I only hope and trust that the Government, having the co-operation and loyal support of the people, will undertake a great national housing scheme that will have the support of all Parties in the House and of the people in the country in general. 
     
      
       This does not profess to be a Bill for the solution of the housing problem, therefore I do not intend to make any general observations concerning that aspect.  As I read it, it is   simply a Bill to enable the Government to deal with those schemes that were left over under previous Acts.  Within that modest ambit I propose to confine my remarks.  There are just two things that I should like to ask the President before he comes to reply.  I notice that in Section 5 of the Bill the date 17th October, 1928, is mentioned.  The effect of that is that no house can qualify for a grant unless it has already been begun.  If that is so, I would ask the President to consider whether it is not possible to give an extension so as to enable the work to be undertaken in the future.  There is another small provision which I think might go some way to meet the needs of a particular class, the poorer people in country districts. I was delighted to hear Deputy Murphy speak so justly of the efforts made both by the officials, here in Dublin and the inspectors in connection with the work that has been carried on. I think those who have practical experience of the work will join in that tribute.  I think it is very well deserved and I am extremely glad to hear it paid.  I would like to ask the President if it is possible to carry on this work a little bit further.  I am speaking now of the grants for houses built by private individuals.  Would it not be possible to alter the regulations which are made in Section 4 of the principal Act, so as to enable some small part of the grant to be given at a rather earlier stage?  The main difficulty which I have observed in the working of the Act is this, that it is an admirable Act for any people who are well enough off to be able to meet any considerable expenditure before they receive any grant. 
     
     I am open to correction if I am wrong, but my recollection is that the first instalment is payable when the house is ready to receive the roof.  I think that probably means that by far the greater part of the expense has been incurred at that time.  There is no doubt that does deter a great many people whose need is perhaps greatest, and I would like to ask, if we are going to carry it a little bit further, would it not be possible, when a man has given sufficient earnest that he is really proceeding seriously with the   house, to give him a small part of the grant?  I would suggest, for example, that when a man has got out the foundations, and has got lime, sand and stone on the ground, it is not likely that he is going to cease and not do any more.  I would suggest that the Department might consider whether they could not give him part of the grant when that has been done.  If that is not possible in all cases, then perhaps the inspector, who knows the circumstances and the man, might be given a certain discretion as to when part of the grant might issue. 
     
      
       With regard to the first point raised by Deputy Law, the date, 17th October, refers to private individuals and public utility societies and not to local authorities. The point was also raised by somebody else.  I notice a disposition on the part of some Deputies, who were most voluable in their criticism, to avoid approaching the problem as it should be approached.  Deputy Lemass was, I think, the first who came to the kernel of it.  Deputy O'Kelly carefully avoided it.  He managed to sandwich into his speech a good deal of abuse and a not very intelligent examination of the Bill and the problem, but avoided point-blank what is the real trouble in the matter.  It is not a question of money&mdash;that is not the trouble.  Money can be found, if there be value got for it.  There has been a marked disposition on the part of most people to avoid that particular issue.  So far as the statement made by Deputy Rice at the election in Dublin is concerned, I will be prepared to stand over it as far as the £10,000,000 or the ten years is concerned, provided the report on unemployment is adhered to&mdash;paragraphs 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 and 40.  These are the things which Deputies who are anxious to score and to make speeches without considering what they are making them about avoid paying any attention to, just like Deputy Briscoe in speaking of building materials.  I suppose he never heard of the Housing (Facilities) Act, 1924.  Did he ever hear of Section 9 of that Act?  Did he ever hear of or make any inquiries as to whether any application had been made to put that section into operation?   If he did not, I can tell him that no person ever applied to have it put into operation.  As far as the Shannon scheme, involving a cost of £7,000,000, is concerned, it was fashioned on a basis on which we can also solve the housing problem&mdash;on an economic basis.  The scheme must pay for itself; no other money must be brought in to help it.  The people who take the current will have to pay for it, and it is so fashioned that we will be able to supply that current at a moderate price. 
     
     Deputy Derrig solaced himself with the reflection that if this housing problem were better financed, it would be easily solved.  What does he mean by better finance?  What he means is that more money from somebody else must be found to enable a man to get a cheaper house.  I suggest that that is not an honest way of describing the situation.  By better finance he simply means giving a bigger subsidy.  Is that sound business?  Will the gentlemen who are advising Deputies opposite say that that is a proposition upon which you can borrow money?  Those who speak about compelling banks to lend money ought to remember that any person who goes to a banker and threatens him if he does not lend money on an unsound proposition, is not doing much for the good of the country.  The Deputy stated that a certain house in Belfast costs £370, that a house with the same number of rooms costs £414 in Kilkenny, and he dismissed that as if it were of no account &mdash;a vital point.  Ten per cent. added to the cost of construction of a four-roomed house in Kilkenny as compared with Belfast&mdash;that is a matter of no account; better finance would solve that. I submit to the Deputy that he cannot get out of it so easily.  The problem to be solved is whether you can provide five-roomed houses which cost £495 in 1927 and £443 in 1928; four-roomed houses which cost £427 in 1927 and £389 in 1928: and three-roomed houses which cost £402 in 1927; whether, having paid that money for these houses, you can rent them to people at 4/- or 5/-.  That is the problem.  All the genius of all the different parties multiplied together is not going to solve that problem.  It can only be solved on   the lines laid down by the Committee on Unemployment&mdash;that you must get value for the money.  The only Deputy who mentioned that has really made a greater study of the problem than all the others put together.  £10,000,000 can easily be borrowed in respect of this or any other service if you can show value for it. 
     This Bill is a condemnation of the economy of housing; all the previous Bills were a condemnation of it.  If Deputies will examine the history of housing during the last six years, they will find that an improvement has been made.  The cost of the provision of houses is not what it was in 1922.  It is not so difficult to persuade people to build now as in 1922.  There were 22 local authorities who would not proceed with housing schemes in 1922, although they were offered £2 of Government money for every £1 they put up themselves.  Yet we have Deputies like Deputy O'Kelly telling us that we have not made any attempt to solve the problem.  Deputies who speak on this question should make a study of it.  In the whole course of his speech, Deputy O'Kelly did not make a single constructive proposal. 
     When we started in 1924 with the Housing (Facilities) Act, a subsidy of £20 for every room was given&mdash;£100 for a five-roomed house.  That has gone down in the 1925 and 1926 Acts and in this Bill to £15 for private individuals. As I said, this Bill is a condemnation both of the master builders and the operatives and a condemnation of most of the speakers who have spoken on the subject and who addressed themselves to it as if it were a question of shovelling out money.  That will not solve it.  Anybody who has made a study of it knows that.  The country is not rich enough to solve the problem at that price, and the sooner we realise that the better.  The sooner we are honest with ourselves on that aspect of it the better. 
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I ask the President if, according to the Estimates, a barrack for four Civic Guards cost from £1,500 to £2,500?  What kind of a family does   he intend putting into one of those £370 houses? 
     
     
      
       I am certain that there were more than five rooms in that house.  I can give the Deputy a much more extravagant example of the cost of a house, which I had to pay myself. 
     
     
      
       Can the country afford to pay £1,500 for a Civic Guards barrack? 
     
     
      
       That is not the question.  What we are concerned here with is the provision of thousands of houses.  So far we have provided about fourteen thousand, at a cost to the State of about £1,800,000.  Most people will tell us that three or four times that number is required.  Extravagant estimates have even been made of something like five times the number. Is it possible to get £9,000,000 in subsidies in order to provide that number? We know it is not.  The solution of this problem, as far as it has been approached by the Government during the past few years, has had two main aspects.  In 1922 building&mdash;if you can call the activity of builders and operatives by that name in 1922&mdash; was practically at a standstill all over the country.  It was by reason of the large amount which had to be given in subsidies that any building was got going at all.  Now building operations are going on, generally speaking, over the country.  This Bill is carrying out or winding-up the particular policy adopted in 1922&mdash;practically completing that.  I hope that when other proposals are under consideration here a more business-like approach to the solution of the problem will be evidenced from all parts of the House. We had to start building operations first of all to provide houses for the working classes.  We could have done what Deputy Good has suggested, built fewer or paid more money. Gradual improvement of the housing of the people in Dublin has led to a gradual improvement of the less well-to-do citizens, but it has not improved the lot of the whole of the slum-dwellers. In so far as that term is concerned, it is used by people who know very little about it.  All the people   who live in tenements are not slum-dwellers by any means.  For the information of those who address themselves to this matter as if there were a great moral danger to those people, I may say that there is as high a standard of morality in the Dublin slums as there is in any district in any other part of this or any other country, and much higher than in a great many, and there is no danger whatever to morality by reason of conditions there.  This winding-up of these particular schemes involves the provision of something like 900 houses by private individuals and public utility societies, and something like 1,600 by local authorities throughout the country, including the Corporation of Dublin, the Corporation of Cork, Pembroke Urban Council, North Dublin Rural District Council, Carrickmacross Urban Council, South Dublin Rural Council, Macroom District Council and Cork Board of Health. That practically exhausts the list with the exception of Kilkenny and some other districts. 
     
     
      
       Wexford ought to be there. 
     
     
      
       It is not of the importance of the City of Dublin or Cork. 
     
     
      
       It is in that list, if you take the trouble to read it.  It is doing very good work too. 
     
     
      
       There are 1,655 houses in all, including labourers' cottages.  The people who are being housed in Dublin are people with five, six, ten and even thirteen in family.  Deputy Byrne mentioned the case of a man who had only seven in family, and was unable to get a house, but the Deputy may be satisfied that if it was not possible to provide that man with a house it meant there was one more available for a man with a larger family.  Deputy Ward, I think, asked if special information was given to certain individuals in connection with this Bill and withheld from others.  The Executive Council had this Bill before them less than a week before it was introduced into the House.  Therefore, it would be impossible   to send anything out about it unless within three or four days.  Deputy Anthony asked, in the case of a man having begun a house and stopped, how he would stand with regard to the grant under this Bill.  As there is no section dealing with a man having stopped, I think he would have a fair chance of getting the grant if he goes on and keeps on. 
       I think that finishes practically all the points raised in the course of the debate. This is a Bill dealing with the completion of the policy dealing with houses started in 1922 and has no relation to any other. 
     
     
      
       Would the President tell us what happened to the conference of which Deputy Rice was chairman? 
     
     
      
       I would like to ask the President what he meant by saying that Section 5 does not refer to local authorities.  Does that mean they can go and build? 
     
     
      
       If they get sanction for a building scheme there is provision for 1,655 houses for the local authority, even if they have not begun by the 17th October, but it does not follow that an unlimited sum will be available. 
     
     
      
       There are local authorities that have schemes half-way through.  The houses may not have actually been begun, but the schemes are ready. 
     
     
      
       Has the President considered the possibility of lending money to people to be used for the purchase of houses under the Bill? 
     
     
      
       No, not under this Bill. 
     
     
      
       It has been found quite a sound financial proposition by English insurance companies who advance money to people in this country to purchase houses. 
     
     
      
       Not under this Bill; this is purely a Bill for continuing the subsidies of houses.  The other matter would probably arise in connection with the Town Tenants Commission report.  That Commission, I think,   recommended the provision of money for that purpose. 
       Question&mdash;&ldquo;That this Bill be now read a Second Time&rdquo;&mdash;put and agreed to. 
     
     
      
       We propose to take the Third Stage this day three weeks. 
     
     
      
       Can the President not see his way to take it earlier than that?  I think it would be regarded as non-contentious. 
     
     
      
       We have to get the Estimates through, and the Appropriations through, by the 1st December, and I am proposing to allot, after tonight, all the time for the next couple of weeks to the Estimates. 
     
     
      
       But I think the President would get unanimous agreement for the Committee Stage of this Bill. 
     
     
      
       The House has spent three or four hours upon the Second Reading of it. 
     
     
      
       Half an hour might do for the Committee Stage.  I ask the President to reconsider this matter and to put it down for this day week. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy wishes, I shall put it down a week earlier, but I do not anticipate having the Estimates finished by that time. 
     
     
      
       Say this day week. 
     
     
      
       If the President is informed by different Parties that the Bill will not be opposed, would he not put it down earlier? 
     
     
      
       It is a question of time. 
     
     
      
       Five minutes might do. 
     
     
      
       If it takes only five minutes I will put it down for this day week. 
     
     
      
       We could not guarantee that it will only take five or ten minutes, but it will only take a little time. 
     
     
      
       Then we shall put down the Committee Stage for this day week, Wednesday, 31st October. 
     
   
   
     ORDERS OF THE DAY. - CENSORSHIP OF PUBLICATIONS BILL, 1928&mdash;SECOND STAGE (RESUMED). 
     
        Question proposed that the Bill be read a Second Time. 
     
      
       On this Bill there seems to be a general concensus of opinion in the Dail that as far as possible the operation of the Bill should be limited to offences against public morality of a sexual kind, but it is not at all clear I submit that the Bill contains any such limitation.  We must remember that in this regard it is not the intentions of anybody that counts but the words of the Bill.  The Bill deals with publications which are of an indecent and obscene nature or which offend against public morality.  I think these are the words of the Bill and the word &ldquo;indecent&rdquo; is specifically defined in the Bill to mean anything which incites to sexual immorality or otherwise to corrupt or deprave.  I think it is perfectly clear, on the wording of the Bill that any publication whether it be a book or a report of a speech or a newspaper which tends to corrupt or deprave in a sexual way or in any other way comes within the scope of the Bill.  The Minister has expressed his readiness, in deference to suggestions made by Deputies of all Parties, to meet that point in Committee by accepting amendments specifically designed to limit the scope of the Bill to offences against public morality of a sexual kind.  Deputy Tierney made the point that if there was to be a censorship of books at all that censorship should be limited in the most stringent and specific way.  I entirely agree for two reasons.  One, I believe, that any censorship of books will only mean a double circulation for these books in this country.  I believe having regard to our circumstances, our proximity to a neighbouring country, that is certain to happen, and I think it will be extremely difficult to get anyone in this country fit to censor books.  For these two reasons I agree that if there is to be a censorship of books&mdash;I think Deputy Thrift made a distinction between books and books advocating say, birth   control.  I am dealing with the first&mdash; then I entirely agree that it should be a censorship which is limited in the most stringent and most specific way. Having said all that I want to say and it seems to be necessary to say it that there are other forms of public morality apart altogether from public morality of a sexual kind.  I listened to this debate very carefully.  We were all very virtuous and anxious to make the other fellow virtuous, and I presume having finished the debate, having made honest men of ourselves so to speak, we will revert and begin to discuss nice little subtleties whether commandeering is a proper word for robbery or theft, and I suppose the next time we are taking an oath we will call it an empty formula and push the Bible two feet away, and the next time under certain conditions it may be the proper course to embezzle the money lent.  All these are questions of public morality and as the Bill stands at present all these come within the scope of the Bill. 
     
     
      
       What about election promises that were not carried out? 
     
     
      
       I think that is not a relevant matter. 
     
     
      
       What about Malachi Muldoon? 
     
     
      
       Thou shalt not bear false witness against thine enemy. 
     
     
      
       I quite agree.  If there are any questions Deputies on the opposite benches are anxious to discuss I am always ready.  I do not think they are.  The trouble is we cannot discuss concrete cases in this Bill, but I assure Deputies on the opposite benches that I will take every opportunity of discussing them.  I am quite clear that Thomas or Pat Murphy, who lives anywhere between Donegal and Cork, is not likely to read either Balzac or Aristophanes even in translation, but unfortunately he is likely to read the publications where those moralities I have just mentioned are expounded, and unfortunately he understands them and all the suggestions and innuendoes and implications of those statements.  I am anxious to limit this Bill as much   as possible, for this reason only, that I think the Censorship Bill should be limited as much as possible.  The more it is limited the better.  While I am anxious to limit this Bill as much as possible, I want to say it is my settled opinion that there has been more harm done during the last four or five years by the sort of moral poison I have mentioned than will be done by all the pornographic literature that will come from France or England within a hundred years. 
     
     
      
       They claim full credit for it. 
     
     
      
       This Bill has been now very fully debated in this Chamber. A great number of the speeches which were made were, and of necessity had to be, speeches dealing with points which possibly could be better dealt with in Committee.  That arose from the nature of the Bill, because the Bill in its nature is one upon which practically everybody in the House is agreed in principle.  I am glad to say that none of the storm, I think largely the artificial storm, which has been blowing outside this House has penetrated into it and disturbed the atmosphere of this debate.  The Bill has been carefully, calmly and earnestly discussed by practically every speaker. The opposition to the Bill has been very trifling.  The only person who expressed fairly strong opposition to it was Deputy Little.  Deputy Little is of the opinion that the whole of this question is a police question and can be dealt with under the ordinary law. 
     
     
      
       On a point of personal explanation, I started out by saying that I supported the principle of the Bill.  I said there was a considerable amount of matter dealt with in the Bill which might have been dealt with in the ordinary way by the police. 
     
     
      
       Of course I accept what the Deputy says, but the Deputy conveyed to my mind that this was a Bill which would not be necessary at all if ordinary police duties were carried out efficiently.  The report upon which this Bill has been   founded is a report which lays it down very clearly, after hearing all the evidence, that prosecution is not the proper method of dealing with the class of literature with which we have to deal, that prevention is the proper method to be adopted.  I think the censorship of publications is the only way in which we can effectively deal with this class of literature.  In that finding of the Committee I am completely and entirely in agreement. 
     
     I may here say that Deputy O'Connell, in his opening statement, drew attention to the fact that in my opening speech I had not alluded at all to the work of the Committee or to the nature of its report.  My reason for not making mention of the Committee and of the good work which it had done was that the recommendations of the Committee had been canvassed for many months in the newspapers.  This Bill had also been canvassed for many months in the newspapers.  The most careful comparisons had been made between the two, and the points of similarity and the trifling points of dissimilarity between the Bill and the Report had been carefully investigated and had been fully pointed out to the public.  It, therefore, did seem to me that I would be rather unnecessarily taking up the time of the House if I went over that matter again.  But I think that the Committee may take it that imitation is the most sincere form of flattery, and I do not think that a better compliment can be paid to any Committee than that their recommendations should, in fact, be taken up and acted upon.  That, after all, is the test and not lip-words of praise which sometimes are sincere and other times are not sincere.  The real tribute I think that the Government can pay to the Committee set up is to act upon its recommendations, and that praise we are giving to this particular Committee. Deputy Tierney and my colleague, the Minister for Agriculture, are both of the opinion that a censorship of books is rather a dangerous thing to set up.  I cannot myself agree in that view.  I cannot agree with my colleague that Balzac or writers of that kind are the ones that will be reported to this Committee or dealt with   by this Committee, though I do entirely agree that if reported and dealt with a great deal of Balzac might be found very objectionable. But Balzac is not read in this country at all, and censoring of it would not be altogether necessary.  It is not really foreign classics that we are dealing with in this Bill at all.  What we are dealing with are cheap editions of objectionable books.  There are these cheap editions of these objectionable books, and I believe that these books are doing considerable harm.  That is the class of books that we are aiming at suppressing. 
     
      
       Will the Minister accept amendments to that effect? 
     
     
      
       I will consider whatever amendment the Deputy puts forward. 
     
     
      
       Surely the Minister does not mean that he only intends to suppress cheap editions of such books. 
     
     
      
       I did not say that.  I mean things that are doing harm in this country, and cheap editions of objectionable books are doing harm.  I say there are plenty of those.  I am not at all in agreement with the view that no books circulated in this country are doing substantial harm. 
     
     
      
       No limit is to be put on the wealthy classes.  They can have every book they like. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has a very great interest in the wealthy classes.  I am very glad that the Deputy is coming forward to look after the morality of the wealthy classes. 
     
     
      
       I would like to point out to the Minister that it is the wealthy classes and not the masses that are reading these books. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy has great experience of the wealthy classes, I suppose.  The Deputy has made a very close and careful study of all their vices and probably he knows the harm&mdash;he has read Balzac Aristophanes and these other   people, and is in a position to declare that the morals of the wealthy classes in this country may suffer from the perusal of these works.  The principal objections which were made to this Bill also included the objection which was made by Sir James Craig and which dealt with books of a medical nature.  These scientific medical works are in no danger under this Bill, because I cannot understand that any board of censors would consider that a medical book written purely for medical readers could be considered as being indecent or obscene. Deputy Sir James Craig, however, dealt with the question of advertisements dealing with venereal diseases and their cures, and wanted to know if medical journals containing advertisements of this nature would be prohibited.  They would not, because the Venereal Diseases Act of 1917, which is not touched at all by this legislation makes a special exemption in sub-section (2) of Section 2 of advertisements dealing with cures of this disease in any publication sent openly to duly qualified medical practitioners and to wholesale or retail chemists for the purpose of their business. 
     
     I come on now to deal with the two main objections which Deputy Ruttledge brought against this Bill as it stands.  In the first place, Deputy Ruttledge is in agreement with the Minister for Agriculture in the inter pretation of this Bill.  I am afraid the I still remain completely unconvinced I stated what I believe is an ordinary canon of legal interpretation in my opening statement, and I now fortify myself by a very pithy statement which I have taken from a judgment of the Lord Chancellor, Lord Campbell, in the case of the King v. Edmundson.  &ldquo;I accede,&rdquo; he says, &ldquo;to the principle laid down in all the cases which have been cited.  Where there are general words following particular and specific words, the general words must be confined to things of the same kind as those specified.&rdquo;  If public morality in this Bill means only sexual morality, as I submit it does mean, it will be perfectly unnecessary to have the earlier part of the section at all.  If this Bill becomes law, worded exactly as it is   worded now, it would, in my opinion, deal only with cases of sexual morality.  Otherwise it would have been quite unnecessary to put in the earlier words and it would have been quite sufficient to confine the drafting of it to any publication contrary to public morality.  If it meant public morality in the very wide sense of the term, the earlier words in the section would have been perfectly unnecessary, mere verbiage. 
     
      
       Will the Minister state the necessity for having in the Bill that phrase which deals with public morality? 
     
     
      
       I think I put it before the House already. The reason of having it in is that every class of literature of that nature which is sexually immoral would be taken in; that the net would be sufficiently wide and sufficiently closely knit; that no objectionable book could get out through any one of its meshes.  To stop with simple words might leave a loophole for the escape of some objectionable book and that is the reason why I wished to have this section wide. As a matter of fact I stated, I think, as clearly as I could that it was my intention to bring the wording of this section into line with the thought of the House and also into line with the mode of expression more familiar to the ordinary man in the street.  I stated:&mdash;&ldquo;This Bill deals solely with questions of sexual morality or sexual preversion. It has been pointed out to me that this board of censors will not be a board constituted of lawyers, and that they might put their own interpretation upon the section and might give it a wider interpretation than the interpretation which I have now set upon it and which I am satisfied is the correct interpretation. Personally I would not be very much afraid of that, because if they had difficulties about interpretation I fancy they would go to the trouble of getting legal opinion upon the matter, but as far as I am concerned if the wording of that section is difficult and complicated to the ordinary layman I am ready to accept in   Committee an amendment which would show to the layman that this Bill is confined to what, in fact, it is confined, matters of sexual immorality or things connected therewith.&rdquo;  That, when I gave utterance to it, was clearly expressed, and reading it now again it seems to me to be unambiguous in its terms. 
       I frankly could not follow the fears expressed by Deputy Ruttledge in that portion of his speech.  Deputy Ruttledge raised one other objection upon which he laid some little stress.  That is, the number of persons who should constitute the Board of Censors.  The suggestion in the Bill is a board of five censors and Deputy Ruttledge put forward the suggestion that the board should consist of nine censors.  There is nothing which goes to the principle of the Bill in the actual number of censors who may be appointed.  That is, so to speak, a detail.  There is nothing sacred or unalterable in the number five.  The question which we have to consider is whether it is more likely that five or nine satisfactory persons can be more easily found.  Personally, I am still of the opinion that five is a better number than nine.  The argument which was the main ground upon which Deputy Ruttledge based his adherence to the number nine is an argument, I must admit, which does not appeal to me at all.  It was an argument that you could have different religions, different classes, different interests, I think were his words&mdash;in this country better represented if you had a board of nine rather than if you had a board of five censors.  For my part, when I come to think of what the work of a board of censors will be, I do not consider that the work they will have to perform is a work which will be well performed by men chosen because they were representing different interests.  After all, the real interest of the whole country in this matter is one.  I cannot hold that when you are checking indecency and immorality in books or papers or pictures that one section or one class in this country is more interested in it than any other. 
     
     Deputy Thrift in his speech pointed out, and I hardly think it was necessary   for him to point it out, that the Protestant section of this community is just as much interested in having clean literature in the hands of their children and their children brought up clean-living and clean-thinking people as any other section.  I do not think that you will get a happy board if you are going to choose one person from this religion, another person from that religion, another person representing an interest like booksellers, another representing an interest like stationers, and possibly somebody representing an interest like the people who think that nothing can ever be immoral in art and that anything which is artistic must be allowed into the country, added on as a dead weight to retard the efforts of all the others.  I do not think working out on principles such as that you will get substantially a good board.  What you want are five men who will give a considerable amount of time to this work, men who will be level-headed men, chosen because they are level-headed men, and capable judges of books.  I admit that is one of the difficulties in the Bill and, though I believe they can be found, as I already stated it will be a position which, especially in the beginning, will make very considerable demands upon the time of those censors, and it will be easier to get five men than nine men.  To begin with, it will be naturally easier to get five. You will begin with your best and, naturally, they will work down to be weaker and weaker.  Also, it will be, on the whole, easier to get five men willing to give up their time to this work than it will be to get nine.  It is a matter simply of considering how you can get the best board of censors. 
     Deputy Ruttledge also made a suggestion about the interpretation of the word &ldquo;book.&rdquo;  As far as I gather, Deputy Ruttledge's suggestion merely means that he is in agreement with what I said a little earlier in the debate, that a book should only be condemned if it is ex-professo bad and not if it is obiter bad.  That it should not be condemned if there is one small portion of it bad.  I think that is obviously the rule which every board of censors would have to carry out.  Deputy de Valera followed in a very petulant speech entirely upon the same lines as   Deputy Ruttledge.  He repeated, though in quite a different tone, all the arguments which Deputy Ruttledge had put forward.  I will make no further allusion to Deputy de Valera's speech except to say this: that if Deputy de Valera wishes to put forward amendments to this Bill he is more likely to have those amendments accepted if they do not come in the very supercilious fashion in which Deputy de Valera made his suggestions the other night. 
     
      
       The Minister seems to have learned the &ldquo;Independent&rdquo; by heart. 
     
     
      
       I beg the Deputy's pardon.  I did not quite catch the Deputy's remark. 
     
     
      
       The Minister can go on. 
     
     
      
       If Deputy de Valera will be kind enough to give this House not merely his conclusion, not merely his statements, &ldquo;I think,&rdquo;&ldquo;we considered this matter out,&rdquo;&ldquo;we came to this conclusion&rdquo;; but if he will be sufficiently energetic to put his arguments before the House, I think his arguments will be listened to more attentively than his would-be ex-cathedra pronouncements are likely to be.  Deputy Flinn and Deputy Brady both suggested extensions of this Bill. I do not think that either suggestion would be practicable for carrying out in the working of the Bill.  Deputy Flinn suggested that there should be a licence to keep books.  Deputy Brady suggested that the lending of books should be equally prohibited with the keeping of them for sale or distribution. I do not think that either of those suggestions could be very effectively carried out.  It would be impossible to make raids from house to house, especially in every house in the Saorstat&mdash;to go into them and examine what books are in this house and that house and to see if there are any objectionable books there.  It would be impossible also to find out who are lending books and who are not lending them.  The law in that respect would be virtually a dead letter. 
     
     A great deal, as I have said, of the points which have been put forward in   the course of this Second Reading debate are points which can be more carefully considered on the Committee Stage of this Bill.  One thing, however, I think, emerges from this debate, and that is a recognition by this House that this is an important question, a recognition by this House that it is a difficult question, and a recognition by this House that because it is a difficult question it must not be shirked.  That it is our duty in the present state of the country to produce a Bill which will, without going too far, at the same time go far enough to check this very real and admitted evil.  There has been no demand for anything like the extravagant censorship which it has been suggested outside would be set up.  I have read articles dealing with myself in somewhat flattering terms&mdash;articles which said I could be trusted, but that God alone knows what sort of a person would come after me.  I do not know whether those were meant as flattering articles or sops to Cerebus.  Upon that question I will not now offer any opinion.  But I think it must be plain to anybody who reads the report of this debate in this House that there has been nowhere from any part of the House any demand for anything except a reasonably sensible censorship. 
     Deputy Lemass put it very concisely when he said: &ldquo;In a Censorship Bill it is always much easier to go too far than not to go far enough.&rdquo;  That expresses the general opinion and view of the House.  Where or from what part of the House those terrible successors of mine are to spring from&mdash;those successors who are going to make this Bill what on its face it is not and what by nothing approaching honest or honourable administration it can be turned into a weapon of religions oppression&mdash;I do not know.  I will ask the House to pass the Second Reading of this Bill as a Bill calculated not to oppress any section of this community, but a Bill calculated to take away from young and inexperienced readers of this country the temptation which might lead them into evil. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     
      
       What   date is proposed for the Committee Stage? 
     
     
      
       I propose to fix it for the 21st November. There has been a general request for time in order to put in amendments. 
       Committee Stage fixed for 21st November. 
     
   
   
     ORDERS OF THE DAY. - BUSINESS OF THE DAIL. 
     
      
       Before the House takes up Private Members' Business I would like to ask a question.  I understand that when the President had concluded the debate on the Second Reading of the Housing Bill a while ago he intimated his intention of taking all the time of the House in future, and I take it that that includes all Private Deputies' time.  In the event of the debate on the Legal Practitioners (Qualification) Bill not concluding this evening or in the event of this Bill taking all the time of the House this evening, I want to point out that the effect of the President's decision would be that the motion down in my name would be crushed out and suspended for a very long time. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Deputy will raise that point at the conclusion of the Private Members' business this evening. 
     
     
      
       I think there is a misapprehension on the matter.  What I think the President said was that he desired to give all the Government time that was available to Estimates rather than to Bills. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE DEPUTIES' BUSINESS. - LEGAL PRACTITIONERS (QUALIFICATION) BILL, 1928&mdash;SECOND STAGE (Resumed). 
     
      
       We adjourned this debate with a pleasant tangle as to whether Deputy J.J. Byrne should leave the country for the country's good or whether Deputy Flinn was a nonentity.  I do not suppose I can follow   up that particular discussion, but it arose out of a question which Deputy Byrne asked as to whether one should forbid brains from going out of this country. 
       If people so hate this country, so hate Irish and things Irish, that they are going to leave the country rather than study sufficient Irish to enable them to pass a law examination, one must say &ldquo;let them go,&rdquo; because these people are never going to make good citizens.  On the other hand, Deputy J.J. Byrne must face the big problem that is there.  It is the problem of how you are going to prevent the emigration of educated brains from this country and, however he may put questions to other people raising difficulties, everybody must recognise that that problem of conserving the educated brains of the country for its benefit is one to which everyone must give attention.  I contend that the more the Irish-Ireland point of view persists, and is pressed forward, the more we shall succeed in getting the brains of the country to be satisfied to remain here.  In government there must be a certain amount of compulsion and, provided it carries the good sense of the general public, everybody must submit to it.  Very great sacrifices indeed have been made for the sake of the Irish language.  I remember before the Truce one who is high now in the Government pointed out that in order to save the Irish language it would be necessary to make a compromise on other questions, and I must say that at the time it shocked me very greatly; but, whatever view one takes of that now, the sacrifices have been made for the Irish language and it is up to everybody no matter what Party he represents, to see that we make good in order to reap the fruits of the terrible sacrifices that have been made, that the nation is not going to stop in its march forward towards becoming more Gaelic, and also we must with unanimity, no matter what small elements of dissentients there are in the country, try to make one gain, at least, of real progress in the Irish language in Ireland. 
     
     
      
       I have listened with great attention to the very interesting speech of Deputy Little, but   one would have thought that in the speech of a Deputy, possessing the training which he undoubtedly possesses, there would have been a little more logic.  The Deputy was good enough to refer to a question which I asked in the course of the debate, namely, could we forbid the export of brains from the country?  He answered it by saying that it depended on the proposition that if people hated the country so much as not to learn a certain quantity of Irish we had better let them go.  That, of course, is no answer to the question.  Deputy Little came to closer grips with my question when he said that the great problem was the conservation of the brains of the country.  There is nobody in this House who would be in disagreement with that proposition, but that proposition could be carried to such an extremity as to make it absolutely ludicrous. 
       Will Deputy Little, or any other Deputy, suggest that it would be right or proper to forbid members of this nation who can employ themselves outside this country more profitably to themselves, more profitably to the people, and with some distinction to the country, from exercising their energies and brains in other spheres outside? To me the proposition is almost unthinkable.  We have heard from time to time various references to the question of unemployment.  Are we to create rather than diminish unemployment at home by forbidding men with energy and strength, who do not fear to face the hardships of other countries, from going abroad?  No matter what changes or penalties you impose, a certain amount of the young blood of the country will always go to other countries where it can be better remunerated than here.  I think that Deputy Little's proposition, that we should have in our own country a sort of penal servitude, that we should never go away, would be absolutely prohibitive of any progress. 
     
     Turning from what Deputy Little has said to the arguments that have been adduced by the introduction of this Bill.  I think there is one very simple principle which generally, finds agreement, not alone among the   masses, but among those who think intellectually, and that is that it is folly to interfere in matters in which one has no knowledge.  I have the greatest possible respect for my colleagues who introduced this Bill, and also for my colleagues who supported it, but, if I may ask without offence, what particular training or qualification have they for forcing on one of the learned profession a curriculum such as Deputy Conlon has proposed?  If a draper went into a chemist to advise him as to what particular methods he should follow to carry on his business, what answer would be receive?  Is there any business man in this assembly who would be so utterly foolish as to go to another business man and tell him how to conduct his own business?  That is the simple principle on which this Bill is based.  A man is coming to the Dail to dictate to the great learned professions as to what is suitable and what is not suitable for them. 
     
      
       Why did you speak on the Vaccination Bill? 
     
     
      
       I spoke on the Vaccination Bill in favour of the people, and I am not afraid to speak in favour of the people so far as vaccination is concerned, outside this House. I had the courage to vote against my own Party on that Bill.  It seems to be the negation of common-sense and courtesy to introduce a measure of this sort without any consultation with the Benchers or the Incorporated Law Society.  Surely bodies like these, who have done great service for this nation, a fact which I am sure no Deputy will deny, are, at least, entitled to the common courtesy of being consulted on a matter such as this.  What is the aim of the Incorporated Law Society? What is the aim of the Benchers of the King's Inns?  Is it their aim to turn out Irish speakers, or is it their aim to turn out Irish lawyers? 
     
     I listened to the figures that Deputy Conlon has quoted, as far as the County Donegal and other counties in the Saorstat are concerned, concerning the number of Irish speakers in these districts.  The natural inference one would draw from that speech would be that there is a shortage of men   qualified, in the legal profession, to deal with the Irish-speaking districts if the occasion should arise.  I would like to tell this House that there are far more Irish speakers practising at the Irish Bar than there are Irish speakers in this assembly.  If any Deputy ever has a brief to offer and wants that brief to be dealt with by an Irish speaker, there will be no difficulty in finding that Irish speaker at the Irish Bar as it now exists.  If Deputy Conlon should find himself at some future occasion mixed up in litigation, I do not know whether he will look for an Irish speaker or for an Irish lawyer.  I have too much belief in the common-sense of Deputy Conlon not to believe that if Deputy Conlon were engaged in a lawsuit he would want a lawyer who understands law, who can interpret law and win his case. If there is one profession in the world &mdash;and I am sure I will have the members of the legal profession on the opposite benches to agree with me in this statement&mdash;in which it is harder to make headway than in another, that is the legal profession.  Sometimes when young men go to the Bar, they have a certain amount of social influence and a certain amount of &ldquo;pull&rdquo; behind them and they get briefs for a time, but, in the legal parlance, they are not able to deliver the goods and they very quickly sink and are submerged. 
     I think that I saw Deputy Conlon down at the Law Library quite recently and I did not hear that he was looking for a lawyer who was qualified to speak the Irish language.  Possibly he was consulting somebody who was very qualified to speak as far as legal matters were concerned.  I think that in these things we should be consistent, and we certainly ought to practise what we preach.  I regretted very much to hear the Minister for Finance, occupying such an important position as he does, make the important pronouncement that he did on this Bill.  It was pointed out here, I think by Deputy Cooper, that such a thing existed at the Bar as reciprocity between Great Britain, Northern Ireland and the Saorstat and that under existing conditions any member of the Bars of England, Northern Ireland or the Saorstat was at full liberty to practise in the   Courts of either of these territories. The Minister for Finance went even so far as to say that the loss of reciprocity would inflict no hardship on the country.  I suggest, with all respect, that in the learned professions there should be no barriers.  If there is one common heritage of the whole wide world, it is the great sciences of medicine, law and the other learned professions. They are the common heritage of the people, and no barriers should be set up as far as the full practice and the full development of these learned professions are concerned. 
     We have in this city our great schools of engineering, our great schools of medicine, our great schools of law, and I feel sure that no matter to what Party any Deputy in this House belongs, he will share in the common pride in these schools.  He should certainly ask himself this question: What effect will this Bill have on the future of these schools? Will it make for their betterment, or will it tend to depreciate their value? At the present time, students come from practically all over the world to study in these schools.  They come from countries as remote as India and Africa. They spend several years among us, and they are a source of very considerable revenue to the State.  There is no bar; there is no hindrance.  They go through their professional courses, and they scatter themselves through all parts of the world.  We are here setting up a Bill that we are told is for the benefit of the profession.  We have a Bill here to isolate the professions of this country from the professions of the rest of the world.  A short time ago, at one term, there were as many as twenty-eight Indian students called to the Bar.  Do we mean in future to debar these students from coming and availing themselves of our schools?  Do we mean in the future to say that our schools exist only for the benefit of this little island of ours?  Are we going to throw aside that great reputation we enjoyed in past centuries for learning and logic, or are we going to develop our schools and maintain the prestige which they now enjoy at the standard to which they are entitled. 
     I suggest that the mover of the Bill has not given it the thought which is necessary for the introduction of this   measure.  I suggest to the backers of the Bill that if they think by putting down compulsory Irish for the examinations of the Incorporated Law Society and for the examinations of the Benchers, they are going to do a benefit to the Irish language by making it compulsory for students to take the Irish in the course of their studies, they were never more mistaken in their lives.  I suggest that this Bill will not do one single iota of good as far as the Irish language is concerned.  I am perfectly willing to admit and to agree to the proposition that the language of the conqueror in the mouth of the conquered is the language of the slave.  I will go further and say that I stand for pushing forward the Gaelicisation of the country as much as any man in this Assembly, but I say that this Bill will not gain a single Irish speaker as far as the members of the legal profession are concerned.  If a man wants to become a barrister in this country and avoid being forced to take up compulsory Irish, he will have no trouble in the matter.  He will have simply to go down to Northern Ireland, qualify there, and practise in the Saorstat, if he so wishes.  There was never such a ridiculous Bill introduced into this House as this measure.  I think I might very reasonably draw attention to the fact that we have at present compulsory Irish in our primary and secondary schools.  We are multiplying people with a knowledge of Irish with a very great rapidity.  It is only a question of a very short time until this country is bilingual.  Five, ten or twenty years is a short time in the life of a nation, although it may be a long time in the life of an individual.  As one Deputy very properly put it, we ought to follow the course of evolution and not the course of revolution. 
     I should like for a moment to refer to a bilingual country very near our own shores.  Anyone who has ever been in Wales finds that practically every inhabitant of that country is bilingual.  I have had experience in some districts&mdash;I suppose they would be akin to our own Irish-speaking districts&mdash;of coming into touch with Welshmen who could not speak a   single word of any tongue except their own, and nine-tenths of the inhabitants were bilingual.  What did I find there? I found a thing that I do not find in this House.  I found that when they were speaking to me they spoke English and when they were speaking to one another they spoke Welsh.  In this House it very often happens that we are treated to a lecture in Irish which nine-tenths of the Deputies do not understand. 
     
      
       On a point of order.  The statement which the Deputy has just made is one which has been frequently made here. 
     
     
      
       That is not a point of order. 
     
     
      
       I think he ought to prove that nine-tenths of the Deputies do not understand and cannot speak the Irish language.  We all know that a considerably greater proportion of Deputies can do both. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will have to make a speech to make that point. 
     
     
      
       I have no doubt that you, sir, will give Deputy MacEntee all the latitude that he requires to follow me if he thinks he has any grievance with regard to the few arguments I am putting before the House.  It is a very remarkable fact that one finds the Welsh tongue spoken regularly in conversation by the inhabitants of Wales, and that in this House one very rarely finds Irish speakers speaking to each other in their own tongue.  Have the people in Wales gone the distance that we propose to go in this Bill?  Do they propose to set up, as they might just as properly as we are proposing, in the great legal profession that the Welsh language must be compulsory in the entrance examination?  The fact remains that Wales, as far as the language is concerned, has dealt with the subject in a proper and sensible fashion. 
     
     
      
       They have no power to do it. 
     
     
     
      
       They have their members as well as we have.  There would be very little difficulty, if Wales so wished, in passing a Bill similar to this. The lesson I want to draw from it is that they have not done it, and they have no wish to do it.  The same might apply to other countries&mdash;to Belgium, where.  I believe, two languages are spoken.  Either of them, I believe, can be used, but there is no compulsion at the Belgian Bar.  Why, in the name of providence, do we want to be different from all the rest of the world? 
     
     
      
       What is the official language of Belgium? 
     
     
      
       As far as the official language is concerned, I believe both are spoken a great deal. 
     
     
      
       Because they happen to be native. 
     
     
      
       Native or otherwise, the fact remains that they are not following, just the same as in Wales, the steps that we propose to follow in this Bill.  We propose to be different from everybody else, simply from motives of crankiness.  As far as any benefit to the Irish language is concerned, this Bill will confer no benefit, good, bad or indifferent. 
     
     
      
       Nonsense. 
     
     
      
       I listened with great respect to Deputy O'Connell when he put forward his argument that because Irish was compulsory in the teaching profession it should also be compulsory in the legal profession. 
     
     
      
       That was not my argument. 
     
     
      
       If I misinterpret the Deputy I certainly apologise, but I gathered that because teachers were compelled to learn Irish barristers should also be compelled. 
     
     
      
       That was not the argument. 
     
     
      
       If that were so, I might, with all respect, suggest that there is no analogy between the two professions.  I might suggest, as far as teachers are concerned, that they are   the one body of people whom this House should see thoroughly understand the Irish language.  It is on the teaching profession that we must rely for the Gaelicisation of the country.  If they are unable to teach the tongue, then there is no hope for the future of Irish. But God help this nation if you are depending upon the Bar. 
     
     
      
       The most sensible thing you said to-night.  You have made your case. 
     
     
      
       I have made my case, and I stand over the last statement just as frankly as over the rest.  If you want the Bar to turn out Irish speakers, give them instructions to cease to be lawyers and tell them that they have a new function to perform.  If you want Irish speakers at the Bar and not Irish lawyers, I assure you you will have no trouble in getting them, as the Bar is very quick to respond to any call from public opinion and very quick to supply any want for which public opinion calls.  This whole Bill, in my humble opinion, is insincere, hollow and illogical. As I have stated, it will do absolutely no good as far as the Irish language is concerned.  It may do a great and incalculable amount of harm to one of the oldest and finest professions in the whole world. 
     
     
      
       I do not, at times, see eye to eye with my colleague, the promoter of this Bill&mdash;Deputy Conlon&mdash;but it is my intention to support this Bill. The only flaw that I can see in it is that the Bill does not go far enough. Deputy Byrne has stated that we should place no barriers in the path of those studying for the learned professions. I might as well ask Deputy Byrne why should any persons studying for any of the learned professions be asked to study Latin, Greek, or French, or to take any other modern language, as they are asked. 
     
     
      
       May I ask the Deputy could he qualify for a learned profession without Latin? 
     
     
      
       Certainly.  I do not for instance, see what an engineering student wants with Latin. 
     
     
      
       Your own profession? 
     
     
     
      
       As far as Latin is concerned, we have simply to learn the names of bones and things of that kind.  Nurses do not know Latin, but they know the names of bones as well as we do after a few months.  In most of the examinations for matriculation for the different universities and in the preliminary examinations for the profession two languages are prescribed. Latin is generally compulsory, but the second language may be French, Spanish, Irish, Italian or anything else. What objection has Deputy Byrne or any other Deputy to any man training for the legal profession being made to take Irish instead of Spanish.  He can take Irish instead of French.  Does anybody who opposes this Bill mean to assert that a man could not get as much intellectual food out of Irish as out of any other modern language?  It has been proved time and again that people in the various professions have not suffered in those professions because of their proficiency in Irish. Time and again it was proved that Irish scholars and people who start to learn Irish have when quite advanced been successful in every sphere of life. Deputy Byrne stands self-condemned by the sentence he uttered towards the end of his speech.  He said it was not a bit of good to force Irish on lawyers because lawyers would not have it and it was no use trying to do that. 
     
     
      
       I never said that. 
     
     
      
       You said something like it.  The Deputy also said that in Wales when Welsh people meet they converse in Welsh, and that people in this House and elsewhere who know the Irish language and can converse fluently in it use the English language in preference to the Irish language when they meet.  I ask him to ask Deputy Mongan or the promoters of the Bill if that is the practice in this House.  I have heard Irish repeatedly spoken among Deputies who are Irish speakers in this House. 
       In this morning's paper I am sorry to see a letter from Deputy Hennessy giving the reasons why he intends to vote against this Bill. 
     
     
     
      
       May I be permitted to say I intend to make a two or three-hours' speech on this Bill some time.  Would not the Deputy wait until I make my speech before attempting to criticise it? 
     
     
      
       I am sure Deputy Hennessy will get plenty of time to give the House his views and to enumerate more fully the reasons why he intends to vote against this Bill.  In his letter in this morning's paper he said&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Would it not be better as a matter of practice for the Deputy to deal with the speeches made here rather than with letters in the newspapers?  I do not intend to prevent the Deputy if he wants to deal with Deputy Hennessy's letter, but I think it would be better if he dealt with speeches made here. 
     
     
      
       The arguments of Deputy Hennessy were so carefully thought out that he has given them to us in advance so that we might be able to answer them&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       It may simplify matters if I say that I stand by every word that I have written. 
     
     
      
       At any rate the Deputy has stated that the Irish language &ldquo;already occupies a very strong position with regard to the medical profession. All advertisements for appointments of medical men in the Government services under local authorities contain a stipulation that preference will be given to applicants with a knowledge of Irish.&rdquo;  That would impress me more if he had stated those candidates would be actually appointed who would be able to conduct business in the Irish language. He gives us his first reason against this&mdash;that &ldquo;It would take a legal student without any native knowledge of Irish three or four years intensive study of Gaelic to do justice to his Gaelic-speaking litigants.  Such study would be at the cost of his proper and professional education.&rdquo;  I do not think it is necessary to try and convince any member of this House that the fact of a solicitor or barrister having to acquire a certain knowledge of   Irish under the Bill, a knowledge practically equivalent to the matriculation standard, even if it is so high, would be at the cost of his proper professional education.  If that is the opinion that Deputy Hennessy has of the legal profession I am inclined to sympathise with Deputy Byrne. 
     
     
      
       Is not the object of the Bill to provide that barristers shall be able to plead in the Irish speaking districts of the country.  That is why I said the Bill is useless. 
     
     
      
       The second reason that Deputy Hennessy gives is &ldquo;There is and there will be a sufficient number of Gaelic speaking lawyers to meet the requirements of Gaelic speaking litigants.&rdquo; I am very glad to have the assurance of Deputy Hennessy that that is the case.  But there would be no harm in providing that with the present intensified campaign for teaching Irish in the schools and the present increasing number of people learning Irish through technical classes and one thing and another, provision would be made for those in the future.  The more people that are learning Irish and intend to learn Irish the more fluent speakers there are, the more the people in the profession will have to acquire a very good knowledge of Irish.  He goes on to say &ldquo;it is very objectionable to have Civil Servants and professional men because of their numerical insignificance and consequent political impotence made the hypodermicated guinea pig of the language experiment.&rdquo; That is a blow at us all.  The Irish language is just as good a training whether for law, medicine, chemistry or engineering or any other profession as French, Spanish, Italian or mathematics and they are asked to learn all these things.  It is the duty of this Dail which has put the Irish language as the first language under the Constitution to ask people to learn that language.  It is their duty to see that they do learn it where it is possible to make them learn it.  The professions in this matter should lead.  If we are ever to go forward to a true pure Gaelic culture the professions should take the lead; the ordinary people will look to the professions to lead them. 
     
     
        The only way you can ever make this country what Pearse hoped to make, Gaelic as well as free, is to make the professions lead.  If they will not take the study of Irish voluntarily there is only one thing to do and that is to make it impossible to qualify in any profession without a sufficient knowledge of the language to enable one to transact the business of the profession in that language. 
     
      
       I listened to the introduction of this Bill with considerable interest if not with pleasure.  I was waiting for some explanation or defence from the Deputy who introduced it as to why it was that he selected the legal profession for victimisation. 
     
     He had almost finished his observations before he gave us the only explanation and the only defence he had at his disposal, and a more extraordinary explanation or defence I never heard from anybody.  He said the reason why he did it was because he was absolutely ignorant of the legal profession. That is why he did it, and, curiously enough, he had that defence endorsed by no less a person than the Minister for Finance.  Ignorance makes no difference to the Minister for Finance when you are doling out compulsory Irish or, to put it in another way, the more ignorant you are the more competent you are to administer a does of compulsory Irish.  That is the defence which the Deputy who introduced this Bill put before the House for the extraordinary action which he has taken, and he has got his defence countersigned by the Minister for Finance.  We heard, I think from Deputy Anthony, an alternative defence. Deputy Anthony suggested that the reason for its introduction was that there was no sympathy with the legal profession.  In that, perhaps, he is right, and perhaps that reason also actuated Deputy Conlon in introducing the Bill.  That is the position that it is in at present.  The legal profession has been selected for victimisation, and the only defence that can be given for its selection is one.  &ldquo;I know nothing about the legal profession: I am ignorant of it&rdquo;; and the other reason   coming from Deputy Anthony, who says &ldquo;Ah! there is no sympathy with the legal profession.&rdquo;  Why should we not take any other profession?  It is the one with which there is no sympathy. Hence it is open for attack.  I assumed, when I heard the Deputy introducing this Bill, that I would hear the views which, in common courtesy, apart from anything else, he was bound to give us, of the Council of the Incorporated Law Society and of the Benchers of King's Inn on the Bill that was being put before us.  I waited and I waited, and at last this House was told that never once were these two bodies consulted.  Never once were they told that this Bill was being introduced; never once were they asked for their opinions.  If I had the same privileges in this House&mdash;and I do not claim them&mdash;as the Deputy for Liverpool&mdash;I mean the Liverpool Deputy for Cork&mdash;I would fold my arms, I would wag my head almost to breaking point, I would grin my grin, and I would say what abominable impertinence. But not having this privilege, and I do not claim this privilege, I will be content with saying what colossal cheek.  Is it to be suggested that this Bill is to be put down the throats of the legal profession without consulting either of the governing bodies of the profession?  Is that the way you are going to make compulsory Irish popular?  Do we not all know that if you want to attack compulsory Irish that is the way to do it, not even to treat these bodies with the courtesy that would be due to any body in ordinary life?  It is quite true to say that the Minister for Finance stated that if he himself were doing it he would not be guilty of the discourtesy that was shown to the governing bodies. 
     Then I was wondering if I could hear from the Deputy who introduced this Bill one word in favour of it, or one reason as to why he introduced it. At last he broke silence and said: &ldquo;The reason is this: I want to get rid of the difficulty of persons who cannot instruct solicitors in English.&rdquo;  Then he was kind enough to tell us that in my own county of Cork there were 39,271 persons speaking Irish.  I hope the Deputy does not suggest for a moment that there are 39,271 liars in   Cork.  When the Deputy was speaking I was reminded of the fact that on that day forty years ago I was sitting for my preliminary examination.  He spoke about the sea coast.  I know more about the sea coast than anybody in this House.  I have spoken to more persons on the sea coast in West Cork than anybody in this House or outside of it.  I tell you I know what it is, and in forty years only on two occasions have I met people who could not converse with me freely in English. Both of those persons have long since gone to their immortal reward.  There are 39,271 persons in the County of Cork who are unable to converse with solicitors! Was there every such humbug told to any sane body of men?  If he had said 39,200 it would leave 71 still to go, but you would not find 71 persons in the whole of the County Cork who are unable to speak to you in English.  There are 39,271 persons in County Cork who speak Irish! That is why he wants to introduce the Bill. We know how these statistics are got up.  We know how they were got up. If there is a suggestion that there are 39,271 persons in the County of Cork who are unable to speak English, I never heard a more almighty lie. 
     
      
       Do not let the cat out of the bag about how the statistics are got up. 
     
     
      
       To show you how progressive they are, just three months ago&mdash;before the recess&mdash;I got a letter from a gentleman who, in common courtesy I wanted to answer.  He signed his name in Irish.  I went through West Cork and tried to get his name translated.  I tried every Irish speaker I knew; I showed them the letter, and every where it was a mystery. It was only on Friday of last week I was indebted to my friend, Deputy Gearoid O'Sullivan, who translated it for me.  Until I met him I could not answer it.  Those are the people so bristling with a knowledge of the Irish language that they want to insist on every solicitor speaking it.  I understand that Deputy Ruttledge made a very proper suggestion to the proposer and seconder of this Bill.  He suggested   to Deputy Conlon that he should bring in a Bill compelling all rate collectors to speak Irish and to collect the rates in Irish.  That would be an admirable idea, because I am sure one of the sections would be this, if you do not understand Irish you will not be asked to pay rates.  Hence the Bill would be accepted by all sections of the community.  I heard someone else say that it might even apply to officials of the Dublin Corporation.  I do not know much about the Dublin Corporation, but thirty-five years ago I remember the Dublin Corporation when I was living in Dublin. This I do remember, that it was then a kind of home for the out-of-works, the won't-works, and couldn't-works.  I think the Deputy might bring in a supplementary Bill and compel all these Corporation officials to study Irish, and then he would be doing a very good day's work.  I heard a suggestion made by Deputy Redmond, perhaps it was to the Deputy who seconded the Bill, that auctioneers should conduct their auctions in Irish.  No bids should be accepted from anybody except in Irish. The whole transaction must be carried out in Irish.  Let that charity commence at home, before these Deputies can afford to preach to the legal profession, let them go and mind their own jobs and show that they are not hypocrites.  I would suggest to Deputy McFadden that all disputes should be settled in Irish, and if any disputes should arise between two or more bidders the only weapon available, with the exception of the blackthorn, would be Irish.  Go and conduct your auctions in Irish; go and collect your rates in Irish; go and conduct your business in Irish.  Is there anybody who carries on the business of a merchant at the present time who will have the pluck to put over his door: &ldquo;Nothing but Irish spoken here&rdquo;? There is nothing but humbug here, if you like.  We are told that the chief Opposition Party are in favour of this Bill.  It is with them a Party question. 
     
     In the Tower of Babel, which includes, comprises and contains the Opposition, you have almost all the nations of the earth represented.  There you will find Mexicans, Americans, Englishmen, Scotchmen, a few Irishmen   and in addition Deputy Corry. They are all there.  When you come to deal with a Bill of this kind we are all Irish.  They are Irish moryah!  They are all Irish.  That is the kind of humbug which is talked on this Bill; that is the kind of humbug which is being shoved down the throats of the legal profession.  As long as I am here I will be free to say that I have nothing to say to hypocrisy.  Deputy Anthony spoke about the lack of moral courage. I agree with him.  The vote to be taken on this Bill will be taken on one point only and that is either for or against moral courage.  No one will say that this country at present does not require moral courage.  There was never a time, I think&mdash;we are improving&mdash;except within the last few years when there were more people who would tell you in private what they would be afraid to say in public; never a time when there were more of our countrymen who would say in public what they would contradict in private.  We lack moral courage.  The Bill before you will be decided on one point only: either for or against moral courage.  I think if you look around no one would privately disagree with me, when I suggest to the House that there are not twenty Deputies in favour of this Bill. I wonder will twenty have the moral courage to vote against it.  I will be one of those who will vote against it. If the true sense of this House in fact were taken twenty Deputies would not go into the Lobby in favour of it. 
     
      
       What are they afraid of? 
     
     
      
       What becomes of the Bill itself?  I think it was Deputy O'Dowd who was kind enough to tell us something about the facilities in it, that passing matriculation in Irish would be quite enough.  Why did he not read the Bill before speaking on it to the House?  The Bill says nothing of the kind.  It says you must first pass the Incorporated Law Society's examination and having got the certificate from them entitling you to get called you must go and pass another examination and go to the Chief Justice. Section 4 says: You must have a qualification for certificates of the Incorporated Law Society and Section   5 says having got all that that &ldquo;no person shall be admitted as a solicitor by the Chief Justice under Section 31 of the Solicitors (Ireland) Act, 1898, unless before such admission the Chief Justice is satisfied that such person possesses a competent knowledge of the Irish language,&rdquo; which means by the first four sections of the Act the whole profession is handed over to one man who can use the Act as the most absolutely autocratic measure introduced into this House. 
     
     May I suggest to the Opposition, are they in favour of that?  Was there any other country in the world where a similar Bill was introduced, say, getting the council of your own societies and getting your benchers to rule on you, and then you will be handed over to the tender mercies of the Chief Justice when you pass your examination? I think the Deputy had not taken the trouble to read the Bill when he told us that all you had to do was to pass matriculation.  These are the provisions. What is the effect of passing that Bill?  Let us not run away from it; we are up against it.  I presume it will be passed by reason of the lack of moral courage which Deputy Anthony has spoken about.  I hope and look forward to seeing the time when that lack of moral courage will not be found.  I look forward to the time when Deputy Anthony will not be speaking merely against this Bill but voting against it. He spoke against it very effectively, well, and eloquently.  He told us that he is going to vote for it because he said there is a lack of moral courage in the country.  What will be the effect of that?  It will have the effect of sending away students whom we can ill spare and will damn our law schools, because without students you cannot have your law schools.  At present, owing to one of the results of the Treaty which we cannot prevent, our law school is not as well filled as we would wish.  You will have to admit that if you look for a law school you can get a better one in another country than here.  I speak only of England.  Now comes the final blow which will completely smash them of their good name and reputation.  You will not have the same legal education again.  It cannot come about.  You   will drive away the students, but remember you are saying good-bye to your law schools. 
     There is one other point which I mention, because it is one on which I feel very keenly.  I am now in favour of a united Ireland as I have ever been, but by a united Ireland I mean an Ireland with God's own boundaries from Fair Head in Antrim to Mizen Head in Cork.  I have always spoken in favour of that Ireland.  To-night you are asked to put up a barrier between the North and the South, a barrier that is far easier to put up than it will ever be to pull down.  I ask you with great respect to treat this, not as a political measure, but, as sensible Deputies, treat it as you would, as if it were your own job.  If you do that this Bill can only have one fate: it must and should be rejected. 
     
      
       I support this Bill enthusiastically.  The best thanks of this House is due to Deputy Martin Conlon for his thoughtfulness and the care and attention he has given to this Bill and because he has given us a chance to support him in it.  The soul of this nation is linked up with its language. We know the great sacrifice that has been made in the history of this country to save the soul of Ireland. A great sacrifice was made in 1916.  The principal leaders said that a blow should be struck to save the soul of Ireland.  A glorious heritage has been handed down to us from those great men, and I think that heritage is in safe hands.  As to the speeches I have heard, and I think I have heard them all, made against this Bill, when I thought of the Deputies who made them I came to the conclusion that their hostility to the Bill is all a matter of environment.  They should look round and realise that a great change is taking place in this country before their eyes.  There are none as blind as those who will not see.  It is only a little while ago in the history of this country that men were brought to court and fined for having their names on their carts in Irish.  I myself remember two men being summoned for speaking Irish at Nelson   Pillar.  But that situation is altogether changed, new life has come to this country, and we are here to maintain that life and see it carried out.  The best thanks of this House, and of this country, are due to Deputy Conlon for introducing this Bill, and the Gaelic element will thank him for his thoughtfulness in doing so.  The speeches we have heard are the same old cry that the Gaels of this country have listened to for the last thirty years, running down the Irish language, trying to make little of it, asking what is the use of it and so on. But it was the spirit of the Gaels, and those who love the language, that made it possible for us to assemble here to-night.  It is, therefore, the duty of every Gael and every thoughtful man and woman in this country to see that the language is preserved.  We know it was persecution in the past that is the cause of our being here to-night, pleading that our own language should get its proper place. 
     
     We know it was the policy of those who tried to oppress and crush the nation to do so by crushing the language. But we will get back the language stage by stage.  We do not think that a miracle is going to happen and that we will get it back in a few years.  It took generations to crush the language, but a good beginning towards restoring it has been made, and made against mighty opposition. We, old Gaelic Leaguers, had to assemble in the past after our work to learn the language.  We had to induce the school teachers and the managers to have the language taught to the rising generation, because we saw that the language would be a necessity for the youth who intended to live in Ireland. We have the language in the schools to-day.  We have it in our universities, and Deputies get up and say that the language is a drawback to students who are asked to learn it. It is no drawback.  Any youth can learn the language.  It is simple.  After ten weeks in Ring College my own children came back speaking as fluently as native speakers.  For grownups it is difficult, but the Bill will make it easy for them, as they start at sixteen. I do not think the speeches that   were made against this Bill are much credit to those who made them.  This is a useful Bill, and if the legal profession are the first to feel the smart, the writing is on the wall.  Let the other professions take heed, as their day will come.  I have great pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
     
      
       The last speech we listened to struck a note that is absolutely and diametrically opposed to the speeches that went before it, and I was very pleased to hear it.  Since I came to the Dail I do not think I ever listened to more piffle&mdash;if I can use that expression in keeping with Parliamentary etiquette&mdash;than the speeches delivered by Deputy Byrne and Deputy Jasper Wolfe.  Deputy Byrne spoke of the barriers we were erecting.  He asked if we were going to erect barriers against those who might be inclined to leave this country, and use their brains in a foreign land.  It is not a question of erecting barriers to prevent people from using their brains in a foreign land; it is simply a question of using barriers to prevent the complete exodus of our population.  We never heard a word from Deputy Byrne about the young men who went out of this country, to the extent of half a million, within the last five or six years.  There was no talk at all about that. 
       Every week 300 or 400 clever young men&mdash;men who are physically fit&mdash;are going away from Donegal.  Statistics can be looked at, even the statistics of the Free State, to verify the statement that the majority of these men are from Irish-speaking districts, and if everything were tabulated they would be found to be amongst the cleverest in this country.  There was no word at all about that. 
     
     Deputy Byrne said that the professions, were common to every country. There was law, medicine, chemistry, physics and all the rest.  I would refer Deputy Byrne to some publications that, perhaps, he has never heard of. For instance.  I would refer him to a book on inorganic chemistry, published by one Cohen, a Doctor of Science and a Doctor of Chemistry at Oxford University, in which he admits that England   was forty years behind Germany in chemistry and physics at the beginning of the European War.  The inference to be drawn from that is that it was not necessary to know the English language to have a sound knowledge of any one of these particular professions that Deputy Byrne mentioned. The fact of the matter was that England was forty years behind Germany, but Deputy Byrne says one must have English, that we must have English in the schools here before we are able to compete in the world's markets in any of these professions. He also spoke about students coming to the different colleges to study for these professions.  These students come here and spend a certain amount of money.  We admit that.  Having received an education, they leave and go back to their several countries.  The Deputy spoke about India and Egypt, but it does not matter the toss of a coin what country they come from, if they come from foreign countries they might as well go to Germany.  If we were speaking Irish here they would receive the same education precisely as they receive at present.  As for Deputy Jasper Wolfe's contribution to the debate, it was, I admit, most entertaining, but I would not say very much else for it. 
     
      
       And humiliating. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy talked about all the different things that might be conducted in Irish, and the different people that might be compelled to use Irish.  For instance, he talked about auctioneers, but, as far as Irish is concerned in the Irish-speaking districts, the old complaint of the people was that Irish was absolutely no good to them, because in the past all the gombeen men, landlords and landlords' agents, had stepped on anybody for using the Irish language.  If a man had to go to the landlord's office to pay his rent he had to use English whether he liked it or not.  He had to go in with his cap in his hand, and the consequence was that the people were under the impression that to get on in the world it was necessary to use the English language.  The children in the cradle were fed, clothed and educated   with the idea, as far as possible, of export, because the people were under the impression that there was no use at all in keeping them in Ireland as there was no future here for them. 
       Everybody you spoke to in Irish-speaking districts said there was no use in educating their children in the native language.  I have gone into Irish-speaking districts.  What did you find there?  The grandfather and the grandmother spoke nothing but Irish, the next generation was bilingual, and the children of the following generation could understand Irish but never spoke it.  They were educated up to the belief &ldquo;What good will Irish be to you when you go to America?&rdquo; As the Deputy who spoke before me has said, we have changed in this country to a certain extent, and there is a future of a certain kind before people who have a competent knowledge of Irish.  The consequence is that in the Irish-speaking districts, where formerly Irish was absolutely  de trop,  the people are now seeing that there is a possibility of utilising Irish for getting a job in some of the Government services and they are learning Irish from the cradle up.  That is a fact, not alone in the Irish-speaking districts, but outside the Irish-speaking districts. 
       Deputy Jasper Wolfe talked about this hardship that is imposed on the people by compulsory Irish.  Now, I never heard, and I think no Deputy in this House ever heard, complaints made about compulsory French, compulsory Latin, or compulsory Greek.  I remember when I was going to school&mdash;it is some time ago, not such a long time, but some time&mdash;we had to learn all sorts of things in the French language about the gardener's daughter having pens, ink and paper, and in Caesar's Gallic Wars about &ldquo;These things being finished, Caesar set out for England,&rdquo; and he told us all about their painting themselves blue, and all that sort of thing.  There were no protests about that; nobody got up and raised his hands in horror.  We learned all about &ldquo;Kleider Machen Lente&mdash;fine feathers make fine birds,&rdquo; when we were learning German&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Did it not make   Deputy Carney try his hand at a Gallic War? 
     
     
      
       That was only an unpleasant interlude.  I never heard anybody raising any protests about these things at all.  Why should they have been inflicted on us, sometimes when we wanted to go out in the evening with greyhounds but had instead to learn about the Gallic Wars and the gardener's daughter?  These people never raised their hands in horror then, although I often did.  Then we had this outery from Deputy Byrne and Deputy Wolfe about this language.  All this is bunkum and humbug on the part of those who are making a protest now. They pretend that the people who bring a Bill like this forward are only hypocrites, but it is they who are the hypocrites.  Why should we have compulsory French, compulsory Latin and compulsory Greek without protest, and why should there be an outcry raised about compulsory Irish?  There is an ascendancy crowd in this country&mdash;I do not often talk about things like this &mdash;who are absolutely opposed to anything Irish&mdash;the Irish language, Irish culture, or Irish nationality in any shape or form, but, as the last Deputy said, a change has come, and the sooner those Deputies realise it the better, because that change has not alone come, but it has come to stay; and not alone has it come to stay, but it has come to increase, flourish and grow, until such time as we have an absolutely Gaelic and free Ireland. 
     
     
      
       I would not go so far as Deputy Carney goes and say that Deputy Jasper Wolfe is hypocritical in his present attitude, and I am sure that even Deputy Carney would not really go that far himself, but I suggest that Deputy Jaspar Wolfe is muddled in the matter.  We are perfectly satisfied to agree that it would be a very great sign of Deputy Wolfe's moral courage if he voted against this Bill.  But I suggest to him, as to others who may vote with him, that their remarks, being a sign of their moral courage which we must admire on their part, are also a sign that they know nothing of the spirit of this nation or the spirit of the people,   know nothing of these things that, meeting the youth of the nation in their young and impressionable years, are going to strengthen them in their sense of nationality and strengthen them for the work that is to fall as their responsibility in building up this nation, that they are blind to what has been the outstanding cementing and invigorating force to the people in their trials of the last few years.  It is also perhaps a sign that they do not understand what is in the Bill.  Let me state my particular attitude and the attitude in their general policy of the Government. Their policy is that national self-respect and national dignity, and in the end national efficiency, demands that we shall be true to the bonds that were enshrined in our Constitution, that Irish is our national language, and that we are going to make it as effective as the English language, if it were the official language of this country. We know the straits in which our national language was left when we got into a position of being able to deal with the matter of arresting its decay and securing its future. 
     
     The Report of the Gaeltacht Commission shows that there are, in spite of what Deputy Jasper Wolfe may say, certain districts where the Irish language happily exists as a spoken language.  The Report shows the educational position, the position as it is affected there by administration, and the position as it is affected by economic conditions.  I do not want to minimise the importance of the economic conditions in the West in securing that that language, which is the living, spoken language of the people there, is going to be kept there and is going to be the language of their children, retained in those districts and carried into other parts of the country. There is this about the economic conditions there at present, that it is in those districts where the economic conditions are poor and the effects of education and of administration under a foreign government were not able to penetrate that we still happily have the language retained.  But the thing that has most affected, in my opinion, the future of the language in the Irish-speaking districts, is the fact that the   people in those districts see English as the language of education, of administration and of the professions. 
     Deputy Byrne asked us to look at Wales.  Why the language is so strong in Wales, I suggest to him, if he would carry out some of his researches there, is that the professions in Wales have not turned their backs on the language in the way in which, for reasons which are very special in this country, the professions here have turned their backs on the language.  We are not, in my opinion, going to save the language to the Irish-speaking people in the West to-day, and therefore, to the rest of the country, and going to save that organic nucleus from which the language must grow and spread back over the country, if we do not show to the people in the Irish-speaking districts that the language is going to be restored to its proper position of prestige among every rank and class in the country. 
     I say one of the reasons why people may vote against this Bill is that they do not understand what is in it. It has been pointed out that the educational policy of this House from one side to the other is to have Irish compulsory in the primary schools.  We gradually intend to restore Irish in the primary schools to an equal level at-least with English, and also to do that in the secondary schools.  As part of the initial steps of that particular policy, from this year 1928 students going up for the intermediate certificate in secondary schools must take Irish as a subject, so that students who are not 16 years of age on the 1st January, 1928, have had, if they passed through the intermediate certificate examination this year, to pass in Irish, and must have been studying Irish for a couple of years.  Secondary education is State-aided to a certain extent.  We, looking on our professions here, must take it as a general matter that their professional education as such will be grafted upon the system of the secondary education provided in this country, and that the people who are going to be lawyers, doctors and engineers will graft their professional studies as a general rule on the   secondary education provided here. There are others going forward who consider that the Arts course in the university should be the particular branch of the stock on which they would graft their professional education. The point to be considered is that people coming under this particular Bill and going forward for the legal or other professions are people who this year, and for some two years past, must have been studying the Irish language.  This is to ensure that they will not put the Irish language where the information about the gardener's daughter has been put, but that the legal profession in ten or fifteen years, or whatever the number of years be, will be a profession which cannot be said to have turned its back on the national language.  We cannot safely exist in a country in which any particular section of the people, particularly any one of the professions, is going as a body to turn their back on what is so important in the national life as the national language. 
     Perhaps Deputy Conlon may have been quite wrong in that he did not consult the Incorporated Law Society in connection with the matter, but at any rate it is a happy thing that he has acted as he has done, and that he has taken one particular profession in this way and put it in proper perspective. Let us deal with the question on the educational basis on which the profession is going to be raised.  Then we can see what is going to be the attitude of that profession in its subsequent educational policy towards the national language.  It may be that the Deputy selected lawyers and solicitors because they work a good deal with the tongue.  I think it has been very useful to have the matter brought out into perspective in this particular way. We cannot afford, for the sake of any profession that we have in this country, that it should be allowed to turn its back on the national language.  For the sake of the nation, we cannot afford to have in it any profession that would turn its back on the national language.  In the same way, if we think only of those districts where the Irish language is still spoken and that   we want to retain the Irish language there so that the link which the language gives with the past shall not be broken&mdash;if we think only of that alone &mdash;we will have to take very definite steps to see that the language is not going to be decried or despised by any section in the community.  A comparison has been made between members of this House who can speak the Irish language and with the professions. We are not making any comparison, and therefore it does not arise.  Many members of this House have, with great trouble to themselves, learned something of the language.  One of their humiliations is that no matter how hard they work at it, because of the fact that their study of the language began late in life, they do not find themselves in a self-respecting position as speakers of the language amongst the Irish-speaking population to be held up as representative good Irishmen. 
     What we want to secure is that the young people in the schools to-day will not in later years find themselves in that humiliating position.  What we are laying down now is going to be no hardship on anyone, even though a certain minority or a majority of any one of the professions want to turn their backs on the language.  They will not be allowed to do that.  I do not think it ought to be taken in any way that the legal profession are against the language, or even that those members of the legal profession who have spoken here against the Bill have spoken really on its merits.  When speaking they were simply re-acting to a lot of nonsense very often talked about the Irish language, and talked by people who claim to speak for the Irish language and everything that is associated with it.  We are simply laying the foundations of the system in a way that will bring no hurt or hardship to anyone, but that will ensure that the Irish language will be brought to the children of to-day and to the adult population of to-morrow in those districts where Irish is not spoken, and that there will be brought to the people who speak Irish traditionally to-day the healthy sustenance of knowing that their language is again restored   to its proper place among the educated and the professional classes, as well as among the ordinary people of the country. 
     
      
       I move the adjournment of the debate. 
       Debate adjourned. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE DEPUTIES' BUSINESS. - PENSIONS FOR WIDOWS AND ORPHANS. 
     
      
       Before the House takes up the consideration of the Estimates for Public Services, perhaps I would be allowed to repeat a question that I put this evening at the beginning of Private Members' time.  I am sorry that I was not in the House when the President was concluding on the Housing Bill, but I understood that he made a statement to the effect that he intends in future to take Private Members' time for the consideration of the Estimates.  If that is so, I want to know what opportunity he proposes to give for dealing with my motion, which has been under consideration by the House. 
     
     
      
       I do not propose to take Private Members' time this week or next week, but what I will do later will depend on the speed with which the House deals with the Estimates. As to whether I shall take Private Members' time later on, I have not decided, but, as the Deputy knows, the Appropriation Bill must be law before the 1st December. 
     
     
      
       Are we to take it, then, that Deputy Murphy's motion will be discussed on Friday or on Wednesday next?  I would like to point out to the President that this particular motion has been on the Order Paper for quite a considerable time.  It is a motion that I submit should get adequate discussion in the House, and perhaps the President would be prepared to give way in regard to it. 
     
     
      
       I have already stated that I do not propose to take Private Members' time this week or next week.  The Deputy will understand that I cannot give any guarantee with regard to any particular item. 
     
   
   
     IN COMMITTEE ON FINANCE. - VOTE 45&mdash;OFFICE OF THE MINISTER FOR EDUCATION. (RESUMED). 
     
        Debate resumed on the following motion: 
     Go ndeontar suim na raghaidh thar £58,012 chun slanuithe na suime is ga chun ioctha an Mhuirir a thiocfidh chun bheith inioctha i rith na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta, 1929, chun Costaisi Oifig an Aire Oideachais, maraon le costas Riarachain, Cigireachta, etc. 
     That a sum not exceeding £58,012 be granted to complete the sum necessary to defray the Charge which will come in course of payment during the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1929, for the Expenses of the Office of the Minister for Education, including the cost of Administration, Inspection, etc. &mdash;[The President.] 
     
      
       It falls to my lot to resume my speech, which was interrupted so long ago as the 6th June, and it is not easy at this time to pick up the threads of the debate which had then been in progress for some days. Before dealing with the particular point at which I was interrupted, I would like to refer briefly to a speech which was made on the last day this question was under discussion by Deputy J.J. Byrne.  I am sorry the Deputy is not in the House, as I would prefer he was here to listen to my comments on his speech.  As far as one could see, it was a general attack on the standard of education reached in our primary schools.  I was rather surprised that the Deputy, who is punctilious in demanding proof of statements made by other Deputies, should have made the statements he did in that speech without advancing even a scintilla of proof for them.  I will quote one statement from his speech, which is typical of most of what he said:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;If children go regularly to school for a number of years, and if, when they reach the age of fourteen, they are only in the third standard, what possible hope can there be either for them or for their parents?&rdquo; 
     
     
        His whole speech, as far as I could gather, was intended to give the impression that was the standard of education which was reached not by one or two pupils, but by the general body of pupils.  As I say, he advanced no proof whatever in support of that argument. If he had taken the trouble to look up the statistics and reports of the Department of Education he would find that for the year ended June, 1926, the latest date for which these statistics are available, there were almost one-third of the pupils attending national schools enrolled in standards higher than the third.  There were 140,000 pupils enrolled in standards higher than the third, and there were 40,000 enrolled in the sixth and higher standards. That was for the year ending June, 1926, before the School Attendance Act came into operation.  We know that the attendance at schools before that Act came into operation was in a deplorable state, and that the average school-leaving age of children in the Free State was between eleven and twelve years.  Yet, we had that comparatively large number of pupils enrolled in standards higher than the third.  Deputy Byrne's speech would give the impression to the casual reader that the average child left school when in the third standard.  Again, he made one of those wild statements sometimes made by people in matters of this kind who give very little thought to what they say.  He said:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;Anybody with experience of education on the Continent or across-Channel is aware that the system of education in this country is fifty years behind as compared with that of Great Britain, and a hundred years behind in comparision with that of the Continent.&rdquo; 
     He does not tell us what experience he had across-Channel or on the Continent, and he does not give us proofs of statements of that kind.  We have heard these statements in other quarters. Not so very long ago a reverend gentleman, discussing the education question at a meeting in Dublin, made a somewhat similar statement.  He said that education in Ireland was fifty years behind what it was in England. When asked for his proof he referred   to a statement made by the late Minister for Education.  The Minister promptly contradicted that statement, and we have heard nothing since from the reverend gentleman on that matter. Deputy Good also made statements without advancing proof. 
     
      
       Deputy Good spoke of technical education. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps Deputy Good is more competent to speak on technical education, especially in the City of Dublin, than I happen to be, but we often hear general statements of that kind without any proof being brought forward to substantiate them. I have no hesitation in saying that the standard of education reached in the primary schools, even without taking into account the unfavourable conditions very often under which that education has to be carried out, compares very favourably with that reached in many other countries where the conditions are more favourable.  I say that as a result of some experience. 
       I happen to have been engaged actively in the work of education for fourteen or fifteen years, and for the past twelve years I have been in close touch with the administration and working of education in this country. I know something about the actual work in other countries.  When outside this country I have always taken occasion to go into schools to find out the standard of education reached and compare it with our own.  I have said more than once, and I say it again, that if I take an average boy or girl who attends regularly at an average school in Ireland, that boy or girl at the age of thirteen or fourteen would compare favourably, and more than favourably, with the standard of education reached by the boy or girl of the same age in any other country.  I give my own experience for what it is worth, but it was borne out very recently by a very distinguished scholar and educationist, Father Lambert McKenna, who was chairman of two very important education conferences appointed by the Minister for Education.  One of these was an inspection conference held in 1926. 
     
     Father McKenna was deputed by his colleagues on the Commission to visit   various countries on the Continent, to inquire into the systems of education there and to observe the working of the systems.  He made a tour of Scotland, England, Belgium, Holland, Germany and France and visited schools in those countries.  On the occasion of the closing of this Commission in reply to a vote of thanks, Father McKenna made the statement that nowhere in any of these countries had he met teachers who were more anxious to do their duty, or who were more capable of doing the duty for which they were appointed, or who were doing it more energetically and enthusiastically than the Irish teachers.  I give that to Deputy J. J. Byrne for what it is worth.  I believe that the ordinary man in the street if he had to choose between the opinions of Deputy Byrne and Father Lambert McKenna would have no difficulty in choosing the evidence he would accept. I refer to this at some length because such statements with regard to the standard of education in this country are not confined to one particular quarter. I do not know why it is we are so fond of running down education and other things in our own country because they happen to be Irish.  It seems to be a failing of our people.  Some people think that because our education is Irish, and tending more and more to be so, that it cannot be any good compared with education in other countries. I have a certain amount of suspicion regarding the quarters from which this criticism comes that there is more behind it than appears on the surface, and that it is an attempt to decry our present system of education because we are giving so much attention to our national language. 
     I have heard it said by some people as a criticism of our system of education that we are spoiling Irish education by introducing or making compulsory the Irish language.  I believe that the criticisms of the kind I have mentioned, intentionally or otherwise, are made because there is that opinion in the minds of the people who make them.  There is no proof, none whatever, rather is the contrary the case, that the standard of education in the other subjects than Irish has suffered   or has fallen in any way by the introduction of compulsory Irish in the schools. 
     Having dealt with that matter, I go on to speak of what is undoubtedly the one black spot in our system of education at the present time.  That is the condition of the buildings in which education has to be carried on.  I do not think it is necessary for me to go into this matter at any great length or to show Deputies here or to prove to the House that school buildings in this country are in a disgraceful and deplorable condition.  We have good buildings.  We have good schools, no doubt, but their number, comparatively speaking, is very few.  Let us take the statistics given by the Minister in support of his speech.  He tells us that a year or two ago a census was taken by the officials of his Department as to the necessity for schools. There were required 350 new schools, absolutely new schools.  In other words, the old buildings had been condemned or it was a case in which new schools had to be built to meet the needs of the population.  There were 550 schools required to be enlarged, and 900 schools required minor alterations. In other words, over one-third of the schools of the country required to be replaced, enlarged or altered in some way in order to provide suitable school accommodation.  Remember this, that these figures have been arrived at by a census taken by the officials of his own Department, the inspectors, and anyone who has any experience of the inspectors knows that their estimate is a most conservative estimate of what is needed.  Then one looked anxiously or listened anxiously&mdash;I certainly did&mdash;to hear what plan the Minister had to deal with the biggest problem and the most pressing and immediate problem in connection with Irish education.  I was most anxious to hear what his plans were and what were his proposals, what scheme he had in view or what plans he had in view to deal with this pressing and urgent problem which affected not only the education of the children, but the actual physical health of so many children throughout the State.  Here is what he says&mdash;he sums it up in two or three lines: &ldquo;The Board of Works is trying as fast as it   can go to remedy that situation and to provide adequate school accommodation.&rdquo; 
     The Board of Works, as fast as it can go! We all know how fast it can go, and no one knows that better than the Minister himself, who spent such a long time in charge of the Board.  That is the only information the Minister has to give us with regard to this great and most pressing problem.  The Board of Works, as fast as it can go, is dealing with the problem.  Let us see how fast it has been going.  I find from the Estimates for the years 1924-25, 1925-26, 1926-27, taking these three years together, that the amount actually voted by this House for building purposes was £175,000, and the amount actually expended was only £128,000. In other words, there was more than a fourth of the money voted by this House unexpended, because the Board of Works could not, I suppose, go fast enough with the spending of the money. Here we have this year £100,000 on the Estimates, and I wonder how much of that will be unexpended at the end of the year?  Will there be a quarter of it?  And suppose that all the money voted will be expended, how long does the Minister calculate it will take before he would even catch up with the arrears in the building programme? And by that time, ten or twelve years at the present rate, how many more buildings will be unfit for habitation? I suggest that the Minister is not tackling the problem in the serious way in which this problem has to be tackled and ought to be tackled.  If we go into any village in the country in the rural districts we see very fine buildings there put up within the last two or three years for the accommodation of the Garda Siochana.  All over the country you see these.  In many cases these very fine buildings are erected for the accommodation of four or five healthy specimens of manhood, but around the corner you will see the miserable and unsanitary hovels very often where fifty, sixty, seventy or a hundred children are huddled together. Surely this is sufficiently serious to be tackled in a more serious manner than that in which the Minister has tackled it.  I will take the liberty, instead of   quoting from reports of Commissions and Inspections, and the reports of the Department to show the state of the school buildings in Ireland at the present time, to read a letter which I regard as a very human document.  It reached me two days ago from a teacher in one of the counties of Leinster. It describes a state of affairs which is not at all an uncommon one in some of our rural districts. 
     The writer says:&mdash;&ldquo;I beg to bring the following facts under your notice, and ask you for the sake of the teachers, the children and the parents to give us your assistance.  This school is built to accommodate thirty-five pupils.&rdquo;  I should say that the regulations provide that there are ten square feet of floor space for each pupil.  And those who are acquainted with such matters will agree that that is very limited accommodation.  The letter goes on: &ldquo;It has been overcrowded for years.  At various times during the past fifteen or sixteen years the question of providing further accommodation has been talked of, but it has got no further than talking of it so far.  From the list of averages which I enclose you will see that the number is still increasing, and under the existing conditions I cannot see how we can either teach or live in an overcrowded poisonous atmosphere.  We found it very difficult to do so in the summer months, but now with the winter at hand it will be an impossible task.  Imagine two teachers and over seventy pupils working in a small room built to accommodate thirty-five pupils. The air is that thick and heavy that it is nothing unusual to have children fainting at their work.  I have had to remove children from class to the yard in my arms several times during the past twelve months, and on previous occassions also... I am not exaggerating in the least; any school child or J.A.M. will tell you the same. This school is situated in a very bleak spot on a hill-top, where the children are very often badly clad and badly fed.  They are practically all belonging to the working-class and to the small farmer, who is even worse off.  It will give you some idea of the poverty of the district when I mention that no matter how willing, they cannot buy   any of their books, and I have to supply them with books or leave them sit idle in the school.  There is another matter which, to my mind, is a serious one.  We have families of children whose parents, God rest them, died in consumption.  This is well-known to everyone in the district.  Surely it is not a proper place for such children&mdash; an overcrowded room from 9.30 a.m. to 3 p.m. on five days each week.  I could write pages on this matter, but anything I could write would give you no idea of the real state of affairs or of the bleakness and poverty of the district.&rdquo; 
     That is a letter which describes the conditions which are not uncommon in many of our rural areas to-day.  What is the solution?  I do not know whether Deputies are acquainted with the system under which grants are made for school buildings.  The normal practice has been that when application is made to the Department of Education for the building of a new school, and when the Department is satisfied that a new school is necessary, it recommends that a building grant be allowed equal to two-thirds of the estimated cost of the building.  The locality has to find the remaining third and also has to provide a site for the school.  In ninety-nine cases out of one hundred the locality means the local school manager, and he has no machinery at his disposal to enable him to raise the remaining third.  He may be in a position to provide the site, but he has no machinery at his disposal to raise the proportion of the grant that is required by the departmental regulations. He must go to the people of the parish and get this money by voluntary subscription. 
     Imagine what happens in a rural parish.  The school is necessary, and it may be estimated to cost anything from £1,800 to £2,000.  This is not an exorbitant figure.  The Education Department, having decided after much delay on the part of the Board of Works, with whom they act in this matter, that a school is necessary, and having made the necessary estimate informs the manager they are prepared to give a grant equal to two-thirds. The manager is asked to raise   the remaining £600 or £700.  How can a manager in a rural area in Ireland be expected to raise, without any machinery save the voluntary support of his congregation, the £600 or £700 necessary? Naturally he will say he cannot afford to do it, and then begins a long, weary and tedious correspondence with bargaining and haggling between the Department and the manager. Then they say: &ldquo;We will give you three-fourths if you will provide the remainder.&rdquo;  The manager explains that he cannot provide the other fourth, and investigations and correspondence continue.  They drag on month after month, and finally the Department agree to give five-sixths.  The correspondence begins again, and I have known cases where it has gone for four or five years and nothing has been done in the way of building a school. There are cases in which the Department, after much investigation and many reports from their officials that the locality is so poor that it cannot afford to find the remainder of the money, give a full grant from Government sources. 
     My suggestion towards a solution of this problem of building schools and for getting rid of the interminable delays that take place in the case of many schools&mdash;delays which are entirely due to the question of the provision of a local proportion&mdash;is that the whole capital cost of building the new school should be advanced from Government sources.  There is no objection that I can see that can be urged against that proposal.  I hold that it is not fair to expect the manager to provide, without any machinery for borrowing the money or spreading the loan over a number of years, the capital sum necessary to represent the share of the locality in the cost of the building.  If he is able to raise the money in the parish for the building of the school, it is not fair to the present generation of parents who contribute.  The building is expected to last 40 or 50 years and successive generations will not be asked to contribute anything.  This suggestion has been made on many occassions. I say that is the solution of the problem of the delay in providing new   schools and the enlargement of existing schools. 
     When this question was raised on another occasion I think some point was mentioned that a difficulty would arise from the point of view of the managers &mdash;that it would have some effect on what is known as the managerial question. I suggest it will not in any way affect the rights of managers in connection with schools.  There are many schools actually vested in the Department, but managers and especially Catholic managers, do not like the idea of vesting schools in that fashion; they prefer to vest them in parochial trustees. The argument is sometimes put up that if the whole of the money for the building of the school was found by the State then of necessity the school must be vested in the State.  There is no such necessity and it does not follow that the school must be vested in the State.  As a matter of fact there are many schools at the present time built in necessitous areas in which the whole of the money required was found by the State and yet these schools are vested in local trustees.  There is no danger so far as the State is concerned in following out that practice in all the schools because in the vesting deed given in such cases there is always provision made that the building must be used as a school for primary education under or in connection with the Department of Education. 
     In other words, the State gets all the protection that it is necessary for it to get.  If that is not done the trustees bind themselves to repay to the State all the money granted by the State for building schools.  The State, as I say, has all the protection it needs, and no principle for which anybody or people stand is violated in any way.  To prove that there is no such principle violated I need only quote a resolution which was actually passed by a special meeting of the Central Council of Catholic Managers in February, 1927.  An extract from this resolution is as follows: &ldquo;That we are of opinion that the whole of the funds necessary for the building and enlarging of schools should be supplied from Government sources, but on condition that the   schools should be vested in trustees as heretofore, and that no change is made in the managerial control.&rdquo;  There is no reason why the conditions specified in that resolution should not be granted, even though the whole of the grant is made available from the State. The State is in the best position, better than any other authority, to find the money necessary to erect schools.  We know on the Minister's own admission that the building of new schools is a pressing problem. 
     We know the rate at which that problem is being dealt with, and I suggest to the Minister that this is the most practical method of dealing with it.  I trust that he will take steps as soon as he possibly can so to alter the regulations, which have nothing to recommend them, as far as I can see, but antiquity.  These regulations were made when conditions were altogether different from what they are now, when the whole idea behind our education system was that it was really a local charge and, in fact, a local matter, when the greater part of the teachers' salaries were found locally, when, in fact, anything that came from the State was only a grant-in-aid to a local body carrying on a school.  We have gone a great distance from that in everything except in this one particular. I suggest to the Minister that there is no reason why we should hang on any longer to that archaic regulation which is impracticable for dealing with present-day conditions, and which has completely broken down, for providing new buildings which are absolutely necessary. 
     I have said much in connection with the provision of actual buildings, but there is another question in connection with it which is of no less importance, namely, the question of upkeep, maintenance, heating and cleaning school buildings&mdash;their sanitation generally. On the question of sanitation I cannot really find words strong enough to describe the condition of some of our schools.  Many of them have no out-offices of any kind, and I am almost inclined to think that schools that have no out-offices are even in a better position than those that have them.  In how many of our rural schools is there anything in the way of effective sanitary   accommodation?  There is no member of this House who does not know the condition of many of our schools, especially those in rural districts. Schools that ought to be the centres of enlightenment in matters relating not only to spiritual but physical education are often the centres of disease and, even, death.  They are indescribably filthy in the matter of sanitary arrangements.  We have got so used to these things that they are passed over without much consideration or condemnation, and sanitary officers, school inspectors, teachers, managers and others take all these things for granted and do not seem to realise that they are, as I say, sources of disease and, in many cases, death. 
     The Minister in his opening remarks did not tell us what he was prepared to do, what he was doing, or intended to do.  He did not tell us whether the old system of heating schools, by which boys brought sods of turf under their arm, was to continue.  That system continues.  In some cases it has been superseded by getting a donkey-load of turf thrown outside the school. That custom prevails in many districts. The children go to school with wet feet and their clothes are wet, but there is no system whereby their clothes and boots can be dried and they have often to sit shivering in school in their wet clothes.  In the evening when the classes break up the children are often called on to sweep and dust the school.  No one will defend that state of affairs and say that it is satisfactory.  What we want to know is, what is the Minister, who is charged with the administration of education in this country, going to do about it?  What does he propose to do about it?  On whom is responsibility to be placed for this state of affairs? 
     Surely the physical health of the children in this country is a matter that deserves consideration at the hands of the Minister and of this Dail. The physical education of the children is the one thing which we seem to neglect very seriously.  I have gone into schools in America and it seemed to me that they pay much more attention to the physical side of the children's education than even to the   literary side.  If they want to show you over their schools they take you first to what they call the Engineering Department where arrangements are made for ventilating and heating the schools.  Even on the prairies in Canada you find good, clean, sanitary school buildings.  Whatever else you find, you always find the conditions and surroundings of the schools clean and sanitary.  That seems to be the primary consideration, and nowhere will you find conditions approaching those which are to be found in many places in this country in regard to the sanitation of school buildings. 
     I want to impress on the Dail and on the Minister that this is not the first time that this question has been raised here.  Condemnation of our present school buildings and the system of the upkeep of schools has been brought to his notice by members of every Party in the House, because every Deputy knows the conditions that exist.  I say that the matter is not being seriously tackled in the way it should be.  It is a big problem, but bigger ones have been solved.  If we had a Council of Education, as I have often urged, surely this is the kind of matter that would come up for discussion time after time until it was settled.  When we urged the establishment of a Council of Education more than once, the Minister said that he did not want it, and whenever a problem came up which required solution he appointed an ad hoc committee which was a Council of Education as regards that particular matter.  I suggest that this is one of the subjects that ought to be tackled in that or some other way, and tackled without further delay, because things are getting very serious and they are getting more serious as time goes on.  I hope that at the end of this discussion the Minister will have somethings more to say than that the Board of Works are going as fast as they can in their attempts to deal with this matter. 
     I was dealing in June last with some questions of administration in connection with the Office of National Education and I complained at that time that we had up to that date no issue of the code of rules and regulations with   which all teachers and managers were supposed to be acquainted.  We had no issue for something like five years, since the Free State Department of Education came into operation, and I said that teachers and managers, and inspectors also, were often at their wits' end to know what in fact the regulations of the Department were on any given matter.  Well, four or five months have gone by and no rules have been yet issued.  I wonder what has become of them, or are we going to have any more rules and regulations, or is the Minister going to adopt a system wherein every teacher and every manager will be free to act just as he wishes?  Of course, if a teacher or a manager does so, he will very soon find out he is going on wrong lines. I do suggest seriously to the Minister that the delay in issuing these rules is altogether inexcusable.  He has given no reason for the delay.  He does not tell us what is the special difficulty about the matter.  The only answer that we can get, when we do raise a question of this kind, is that they hope to issue them very soon, but still the delay goes on.  It is a source of very great inconvenience to those engaged in the work of education not to have a codified volume of the rules and regulations under which they are supposed to carry out their work. 
     Various recommendations were made by the Conference which met two years ago.  It was a very representative Conference, comprising managers, teachers, members of the Gaelic League, members of the General Council of County Councils, and many prominent members of the Dail, including the present Minister for Local Government.  Several recommendations were made by that Conference, but as far as I can see scarcely any one of them has yet been put into operation. A recommendation was made in regard to school buildings.  I have already referred to that.  I would like to say, however, that that representative Conference were of opinion that the untold conditions to which they drew attention called for an immediate remedy if any educational scheme is to secure the desired result.  They pointed   out that the educational programmes which they were recommending could not effectively be put into operation unless these recommendations were put into operation at the same time.  Up to the present, we have had none of these recommendations put into operation. In my previous statement, I have already dealt with the question of books. It was recommended that a new edition of &ldquo;Notes for Teachers&rdquo; should be issued, and very great importance was laid on that by the Conference at the time.  We have not yet seen these &ldquo;Notes for Teachers,&rdquo; and we do not know how soon they will be issued. 
     I should like to say a word or two on the question of school attendance. I might say, A Chinn Comhairle, that I will ask the House to allow me to deal with these matters at some length, because I propose to deal with all matters connected with the Vote at this juncture and not to speak when the various sub-heads come up.  I desire to speak on the question of the administration of the School Attendance Act.  The School Attendance Act came into operation on the 1st January of last year, and, for the first six months especially, there was a great spurt.  The attendance improved very rapidly and the Act was working very well indeed in all parts of the country.  However, from reports I have been receiving, during the last six months especially, it would appear that there is a very marked falling off in the attendance again in many districts. 
     I do not know exactly to what I should attribute that.  It may be that the fear of the possible consequences of non-compliance with the Act had a very big effect on negligent parents during the first six or seven months of the working of the Act, but gradually these parents have begun to find out that it did not very much matter, after all, whether the Act was put into operation or not.  Consequently, they began to fall into the evil habit again of keeping children at home from school.  The standard of attendance that has been reached, even under the working of the Act last year, is comparatively very low.  It has increased somewhat on that of previous years, but it is still as low as 77 per cent.  An attendance of 77   out of 100 pupils cannot be regarded as being particularly satisfactory. 
     I have reason to believe from many figures, facts, and statements brought to my notice that it is very doubtful even if it reaches 77 per cent. for the current year.  I do not know exactly what is the reason for the falling off in the attendance, but I do think that in many cases the courts have given the impression that cases of this kind are really such as should not be brought before them at all, and that the offence of keeping children at home from school is not nearly so grave as to be found without a light on a bicycle.  I believe that an examination of the actual fines in school attendance cases will show that they are very much less than in the ordinary police court cases of lights on bicycles, the absence of names on carts, and things of that kind. It is rather significant, especially in view of the fact that under the provisions of the Act no prosecution is ordinarily brought unless, and until, not only the Guard who has charge of the attendance in that area, but also the superintendant, is perfectly satisfied that it is a case in which a prosecution should be brought&mdash;in other words, that it is a case where there is deliberate neglect on the part of the parents to send the child to school.  Yet we have courts in many cases giving the impression in the locality, because all these cases and the observations of the Justices are reported in the local Press, that in fact these are cases which should never have been brought.  I have numerous instances of that.  One cannot, I suppose, take up here specific cases of misstatements by District Justices with regard to the operation of the Act.  There have been cases where Justices have said that the Act is a tyranny.  Naturally, Guards who have charge of the carrying out of the Act will not be particularly anxious to bring prosecutions before Justices who express their views in that way.  The result is that in many districts things are particularly lax in the matter of school attendance and, in some districts, are drifting into the old condition of affairs which existed before the Act was put into operation.  I suggest to the Minister that he ought to take counsel   with the Minister for Justice in this matter, because although the enforcing of the Act happens to be in the hands of the Minister for Justice, through the Garda Siochana, still it is of intimate concern to the Minister for Education. I suggest that he should take counsel with the Department of Justice, and see if something cannot be done to tighten up the administration of the Act in those districts in which it is undoubtedly lax. 
     
      
       Does the Deputy suggest that I should get the Minister to approach the District Justices on the matter, because I gather that is the real weakness according to him, of the administration? 
     
     
      
       It is one of the weaknesses. 
     
     
      
       The principal weakness and the cause of weakness elsewhere. 
     
     
      
       It is the principal weakness, but I suggest, where these cases are turned down, for instance, by District Justices in the spirit which I have mentioned, that a case might be taken to a higher court.  That has not been done up to the present.  Naturally, I can conceive that there is a reluctance on the part of, say, the local superintendent of the Garda to take a case to a higher court, even where he is distinctly of opinion that the law has been repeatedly broken. It ought to be made clear, as it does not appear to be clear even to those to whom it should be, that teachers in this matter of school attendance have no function except to fill in the reports which they are bound by the Act to fill in week by week.  They are bound to fill in these in the prescribed forms; they have no option but to do it, and their functions end there.  It is quite a common thing when parents are summoned before the courts to make all sorts of charges against the teachers.  Numerous cases of that have been reported in the local papers. These charges are often listened to in the courts; so much so that teachers in some districts have combined and employed a solicitor and counsel to watch their interests.  Parents would   naturally be anxious to make any excuse they can for the non-attendance of their children and the most common excuse is that their children could not go to school because the teacher was no good, or because the teacher punished them, or, as in one case, because the teacher was never at the school.  These things have been accepted in many cases by the District Justices without question of any kind. I do not know what the remedy is for that.  I can only mention it in the hope that it will come to the notice of people who have done this.  I have numerous quotations here, with which I shall not trouble the House, to show that ex-parte statements of this kind without any foundation have been accepted in the courts very often by the District Justices as good and adequate reasons why the children should remain at home.  I want to make it clear that the teacher has no function in regard to this Act further than to fill up the forms prescribed.  One District Justice has stated publicly that the Act was passed by teachers; that it was a tyrannical Act, and that the teachers were responsible for bringing this tyranny on the local inhabitants. I want to say that the teachers have no function except to do their duty as required by the Act. 
     
     One matter I am anxious to get information about is the proposals of the Minister with regard to the training of teachers in future.  Everybody should be anxious that the teachers who are responsible for the education of the children, should be as highly qualified as it is possible to have them.  To that end, we have always advocated that the teachers should get the benefit of university training.  It is not open to every child to go to a university&mdash;that is not a practical proposition.  But it should be the case that every child will have, at least indirectly, the benefits which a university confers, and he can get that if the teachers in the ordinary schools have had the benefit of a university training.  We know that a Departmental Committee have been considering the question of the training of teachers for something like two years. It is a year or eighteen months, in any case, since the national teachers   through their organisation, gave evidence before the Committee.  It is almost a year since we were assured that the Committee was about to finish its work; but the Minister and his Department have been particularly silent in the matter since.  It is important that the public should know what his proposals are in regard to the future provision for the training of teachers. I believe that the country will demand very strongly, in the interests of the children attending primary schools, that the teachers should have the highest possible qualifications and that they should have the benefit of university training. 
     In that connection, I think it was Deputy Mullins, raised a very important point.  He pointed out that young men and women going to the training college have to incur a very big expenditure, and suggested that there ought to be some way whereby scholarships for the children of labouring men and small farmers, who are anxious to enter the profession, should be provided.  I think the Minister interrupted by asking: Why did not the county councils give scholarships?  I raised this point before&mdash;I do not know whether it was in the time of the present Minister or not&mdash;and I was informed, and I believe such is the case, that county councils have no authority to give scholarships in such a case.  If they have, then I should like the Minister to make it quite clear that they have such authority. I know of more than one case of a boy who got a county council scholarship, and at the same time was called to the training college.  In one case the boy asked his county council to transfer his scholarship to the training college, and the county council informed him that they had no power to do that under the University Acts. 
     
      
       Under the other Act&mdash;the Local Government Act? 
     
     
      
       Under the Local Government Act I understand scholarships can only be given from the primary to the secondary school. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       I am glad to hear that and I hope the Minister will make   it clear.  It is undoubtedly a hardship on parents, when they have a child educated up to the standard that he is able to gain by competition entrance to the training college, to find they cannot afford to send him, because they are not in a position to pay the £60 or £50 necessary the first year for education and equipment, and the £20 or £30 necessary the second year in order to complete his training. 
       I should also like if the Minister would tell us what his policy is in the matter of private schools.  What constitutes a private school?  Can anybody who puts up a sign marked &ldquo;private school&rdquo; take in pupils between the ages of 6 and 14 and educate them?  There have been many instances in which doubt has been expressed as to the qualifications of the people who engage in this work, and I think the Minister should tell us what steps his Department takes in connection with them, what conditions are required to be fulfilled before they will give the necessary certificate under the School Attendance Act; whether, not only the qualifications of the teacher, but the actual accommodation provided in the so-called school, is taken into account and reported upon. 
       We would be anxious to know, too, what steps have been, or are being taken in the matter of post-primary education or continuation schools.  I have already stated that in regard to the general standard of education we can compare very favourably with other countries.  I can say now that in the matter of continued education we are very far behind other countries &mdash;in the matter of the education of children from fourteen upwards. First of all, the number for whom any education is at present available is very limited indeed.  There is no such thing as general education as one finds it in many other countries&mdash;free education in fact for all children up to the ages of sixteen, and very often up to eighteen.  That is one of the most important questions in connection with education, this gap, especially between the ages of fourteen and sixteen. 
     
     We have had very valuable recommendations   with regard to that from the Technical Commission and we have had statements from the Minister himself. There is general agreement that this gap ought to be bridged, and that it is something for which provision should be made.  But we heard nothing further.  We know of no practical steps that have been taken.  The Minister has power under the School Attendance Act to compel the attendance of children at school up to the age of sixteen under certain conditions during certain days and for certain hours.  It has been suggested more than once that a beginning could be made especially in the cities with children between the ages of fourteen and sixteen who are not in employment of any kind.  There is no reason why that beginning should not be made immediately.  There is accommodation and it would not be difficult to find teachers and to put that into operation, say, in Dublin, for a given number of hours per week.  That, I suggest, to the Minister is a very important phase.  Perhaps the greatest injury is done to our education by neglecting children during those very important years. 
     I only want to refer further very briefly to two or three other matters. I apologise for having taken up the time of the Dail to the extent I have done.  But the question is a very wide one and the Vote is a very large one. I want to refer now to the question of pensions.  That perhaps is not entirely in the Minister's Department, but surely it should be a very great concern of his that a question of this kind should be dealt with satisfactorily. There are two classes of teachers to whom pensions have been more or less definitely promised for the past two or three years.  The Minister dissents from the suggestion that the promise has been made, but I think if he reads up the statements made by the Minister for Finance, and some of his own statements, too, he will find that these teachers are not astray in holding that in fact, pensions have been promised to them.  It was promised that a scheme of pensions would be inaugurated for them.  In June, 1926, the Minister said, when this question was   raised&mdash;nothing would be done until investigations took place into the Teachers' Pension Fund.  Questions have been repeatedly put down since that date asking what had been done. No later than July we were told that the investigation was practically finished.  We have heard nothing about it since.  Personally, I see no reason why a settlement as to the pensions that this particular class of teachers should receive should be made to depend upon that investigation into the Teachers' Pension Fund.  Is the Minister prepared to say that if the fund is found to be in an unsatisfactory condition then these teachers would get no pensions?  I think he is not prepared to take up that attitude. I need not say again what has been said repeatedly in this House that there is no justification for singling out one particular class of teachers without any other reason than that the principals of the schools happen to be members of religious communities.  That is the reason they are singled out and are differentiated from teachers in ordinary schools. They give the same service, they are paid the same salaries and have the same conditions of service, but because they happen to be teaching in schools conducted by nuns or brothers they are not pensionable.  It is a remarkable comment upon the educational administration of this Free State that that was one of the first things dealt with in Northern Ireland. 
     In the Northern Parliament the anomaly was recognised, and teachers in convent schools and the Brothers' schools were given pensions just as ordinary teachers, to date from the first day that the Belfast Education Authority came into office.  Here we are, five or six years after the Free State Education Department was established, still demanding a pension scheme for this same class of teachers. I hope the Minister will be in a position to say how soon he will be in a position to put this into operation. 
     I need not say that I am in thorough sympathy with, and echo in every way, the demand which has been put up here on behalf of the old pensioned   teachers.  The statistics are available for the Minister.  I think he will find that there are something like 200 teachers who have less than £1 a week pension, and who have had an average of 30 years' service.  That is not a creditable state of affairs.  These old teachers have been making this demand for several years.  I think there is no quarter in the House in which their demand has not full sympathy. I urge again that the amount of money which will be necessary to satisfy their demand is small.  Again, this is a matter with which our Northern friends have dealt very much more generously than we have done.  I suggest, as the sum is small, that the Minister should use his influence with the Minister for Finance to set aside the sum that would be necessary, and it would be a very small sum in a vote of four and a half millions, to satisfy the demands of these old people who gave the best part of their lives to the education of the youth, and who were unfortunate to have lived in times when the teaching profession was not recognised to the extent that it is recognised to-day. 
     There is one other class of teacher about which there has been a good deal of correspondence and a good deal of representation to the Minister and various members of this House.  I refer to the men who are known as the old first-of-first teachers.  They are very few in number now.  They were virtually promised in 1920 that a certain bonus would be given to them, if certain conditions were fulfilled.  The conditions were fulfilled, but they have never got the bonus that they believed they were entitled to receive.  Again, these people are a very small body. They had all their qualifications twenty-eight years ago.  None entered that class since that time, and there are very few left who would be entitled to the bonus under the severe and strict conditions laid down for its receipt.  I believe it would be only carrying out the bargain which was at the time definitely understood to be a virtual promise if they got that bonus which they believed they were entitled to get, and which I think the Minister will see, if he studies the correspondence and the arrangements in connection with it,   they were entitled to receive.  Their demand has pretty widespread support, and I would suggest to the Minister the advisability of recommending to the Minister for Finance that this be paid. 
     There are many other matters in the Estimate that one would like to refer to if time were available, but on an occasion of this kind only the larger outstanding matters can be touched on.  I would again specially ask the Minister to deal at some length with what I have pointed out to be the most pressing of all educational problems that we are up against, that is, the school building and school equipment and the provision for the maintenance and upkeep of schools after they are built. 
     
      
       Bhi cheithre cinn d'fhograi run ar an gclar agam ag cur i gcoinne na bhotanna so.  Dheineas iad a tharraingt siar acht ba mhian liom tagairt gheairid a dheanamh do rudai airithe a bhaineas leis na bhotanna so.  Is fior na fuil ach uimhir a 45 os ar gcomhair i lathair na huaire, acht le cead uaitse, a Leas-Chinn Comhairle, labharfaidh me fa se cinn de bhotanna anois&mdash;uimhir a 45 go dti uimhir a 50.  Ar an gceud dul sios, ba mhaith liom roinnt cheisteanna a chur ar Aire an Oideachais:&mdash; 
       (1)  An mian leis an Aire aoisliuntas do thabhairt do na muinteoiri scoile&mdash; na muinteoiri tuatha ata ag obair sna conbhenti agus i scoileanna na mBrathar gCriostuil. 
       (2)  Cathaoin a deunfar tuarastal ceart agus aoisliuntas do thabhairt do na muinteoiri tuatha ata ag obair sna scoileanna ceartuchain agus saothair. 
       (3)  Cad is fath leis an moill ar thuarasgabhail na n-inniucthoiri fa staid Ciste an Aoisliuntais d'oidibh scoile.  Do gealladh go mbeadh an tuarasgabhail sin ar faghail sa Bhealtaine seo caithte.  Cionnus mar ta an sceal agus cathaoin a foillseofar i? 
     
     Aontuighim le Tomas O Conaill, Teachta, sa mheid adubhairt se fan ghear-gha ata le scoileanna nua a thogail agus cuid eile acu a mheadu. Ca bhfaghfar an t-airgead?  D'reir fhreagra a fuaireas on Aire le deanaighe, ta £200,000, ar a laighead, de chostas gach bliain ag baint le hoideachas na leanbhai fa bhun 6 bhliain   d'aois ata ar rollai na mbunscol.  Ta fhios agam go bhfuil obair mhaith da dheanamh sa Ghaedhilg agus i n-abhair eile i scoileanna airithe naoidheanan acht, im thuairim-se, b'fhearr go mor don scoil, agus do na leanbhai fein, furmhor na naoidheanan ata i gceist d'fhagaint sa mbaile go ceann bliana eile.  Cuirtear mor-chuid acu go dti an scoil i dtreo is na beidis sa tsli ar na maithreacha. 
     D'fheudfai £100,000 sa bhliain a shabhailt ar an gcuma san chun tighe scoile do chur ar bun, do mheadu agus do ghlana.  Maidir leis na meadhonscoileanna, ba mhaith liom fios a bheith agam a bhfuil se d'fhiachaibh ar gach meadhon-scoil san Saorstat an Ghaedhilg a bheith mar abhar leighinn ag meid airithe fa'n gceud de na scolairi i gcoir teistimeireachta agus an bhfuil aon riail ann an Ghaedhilg a chur ar an gclar ama ar uair thrathuil. 
     I dtaobh an cheard - oideachais, b'fheidir go neosadh an t-Aire dhuinn cad ta deunta le moltai an Choimisiuin um Cheard-Oideachas do chur in eifeacht.  Ta fhios agam nach feidir na moltai do chur i bhfeidhm taobh istigh de mhi no, b'fheidir, taobh istigh de bhliain, ach ba mhaith liom a chloisint on Aire cad ta deanta aige go dti aonis. 
     Taim go laidir ar aon intinn leis an Teachta Tomas O Conaill in a dubhairt se i dtaobh na muinteoiri a chuaidh amach ar phinsiun faoi'n sean-reim. Ni shaoilim go bhfuil 200 acu ann anois.  Do reir mar chluinim nil fagtha ach 150 acu.  Ta siad ag fail bhais go lionmhar&mdash;cuid acu le hocras. 
     Rinne me tagairt cheana do scoileanna ata salach agus ata go dona ar dhoigh eile.  Bhios i gCondae na Gaillimhe cupla seachtain o shoin agus chuaidh me isteach sa scoil chun a fheiceail caide an seort teach scoile a bhi ann.  Togadh an scoil le haghaidh 60 paiste ach bhi 100 paiste i lathair. La fuair baistighe a bhi ann ach bhi na fuinneoga briste agus dubhradh liom go raibh siad mar san le breis agus tri seachtaine agus ni raibh fhios ag aoinne cathaoin a cuirfaoi deis orra. 
     Dubhairt me go raibh scoileanna i n-aiteacha gan aon chloistin.  Ta coip de thuarasgabhail agam annso ata in   oifig Roinn an Rialtais Aitiula in a bhfuil cur sios ar scoileanna i gCondae an Chlair agus aiteacha eile.  Bheadh naire orm cuid de do leigheamh amach annso.  Ni feidir oideachas ceart do thabhairt do phaisti, na slainte a bheith acu, gan tracht ar oideachas, agus iad a bheith cruinnithe le cheile i scoileanna mar so.  In Kanturk agus ait eile do reir an chuntais seo, &ldquo;the schools have no closets or even shelters of any kind.&rdquo;  Ins an Chondae ceanna ta cuid de na scoileanna maith go leor agus ta cloistini agus eile ag gabhail leo.  In Inse Geimhleach &ldquo;national schools most primitive; there are no closets in existence and the children resort to the fields.  This atrocious state of affairs has been in existence for 50 years.&rdquo; Ins an chondae san is docha go bhfuil leath-chuid de na scoileanna go dona agus an chuid eile go maith. 
     Da luaithe a cuirtear deis ar na scoileanna so is amhlaidh is fearr e&mdash; d'oideachas agus do na paisti fein. 
     
      
       I presume it is in order to speak on these votes collectively. I want to refer to Vote 50 in connection with reformatory and industrial schools.  I would like to ask the Minister without giving any promise or answer now to make a note for some future date of the slight inconvenience that exists in particular in the reformatory school at Philipstown. The boys there to some extent are sleeping in hammocks.  I understand that inspectors of the Department agree that if cots could be provided for all the boys it would be far better for their health as it is agreed that sleeping in hammocks for growing boys does not conduce to their growing in a proper manner.  I understand that the allowances made to reformatories are based on the number of inmates.  In this particular case, that school run by the fathers in charge is making great efforts to give the boys every help in shaping their lives for the future.  I understand the school is heavily involved in debt due to many alterations and improvements.  If the Minister could see his way to inquire into it and to help them by giving them a loan say in order to finish the equipping of the school with proper   cots I believe it would be doing a good day's work for those inmates. 
     
     
      
       It is rather difficult to know precisely how to deal with this debate.  I admit I am, to a large extent, responsible for it myself. I suggested that the whole of the votes might be debated on the Vote for the Office of the Minister for Education. I had hoped in that particular case that the discussion would have limited itself to general principles and that the details could be discussed on separate estimates.  However, as things have turned out, possibly a full debate is only natural.  In fact, there is a good deal to be said for the abolition of the distinction between the different votes. 
     
     I must say when sitting on this bench, listening to the various appeals made to me, and the different criticisms, I was often wondering whether I was Minister for Local Government, Minister for Finance or Minister for Education, and sometimes whether I was supposed to look after rather the games of country.  There were a good many questions raised which might have possibly more reasonably been put to other Ministers.  However, there were a good many problems I was asked to deal with that I think on the whole might be dealt with more satisfactorily by voluntary organisations than by any State Department. A tribute was paid at an early stage of this debate to the debate itself by Professor Tierney, namely, that on the whole this debate contrasted favourably with the previous debates owing to the fact that it dealt mainly with the essentials of education, with things that were really educational matters, rather than with the externals; that previous debates had very often spread over that field, interesting enough in some respects, but that were rather side issues of education rather than issues dealing with essential matters.  Possibly, taking the debate as a whole as it was evolved up to the present, something may be said for that point of view in comparison with previous debates, but I think the Deputy will admit that, so far as   definite detailed questions are concerned a fair number have been put to me.  There was a great deal of detail in some cases, even the cases of individual schools were brought up before me, and certain general questions were raised.  It might be well if I dealt first with these general questions.  For instance, a question was raised by Deputy J.J. Byrne, and I refer to it because I am quite well aware that this is not the first time that it has been raised, either here or elsewhere, here by other Deputies, and constantly elsewhere.  I disagree with what he said, though there did seem to be confusion between the different types of education and different schools&mdash;secondary schools and primary schools.  However I think that he did put a certain problem which is a problem to which, I think, the House might very easily be asked to face up. We are spending four and a half millions on education.  Are we getting value for that four and a half millions? You may disagree or you may agree with Deputy Byrne, but at all events it is a question that is fundamental. 
     The other questions on general points that were raised were all very elaborate and extensive demands for increased expenditure.  I think the other big question that was touched on more than once, and that was specially referred to by Deputy O'Connell, was the breakdown of the voluntary system; I think that is practically what it is come to.  I will deal with these three questions in that order.  I will try, as far as I can, to give answers to the various questions of detail that were raised in the course of the debate, but whether the answers will be satisfactory or not to Deputies, is another matter. 
     I refer to the question put by Deputy Byrne, because it is a question that has often been put, and the accusations he made were often made, or often hinted at, namely: For that sum of four and a half million pounds do we get the best possible return?  Again, the question that I want to ask the House is this: Is the system of primary education so flawless, are its results so satisfactory, that no criticism was directed by any Deputy to the system itself?  Is it perfectly efficient?  Then the Deputy went on to modify that question&mdash;because I   do not think anybody could contend that any system is perfectly efficient&mdash; by asking: Is it as efficient as it should be?  Then he said: &ldquo;I can even go further and say that I have known children to go to school regularly, except in the case of sickness, from five to sixteen and seventeen years of age, and when they presented themselves for the elementary leaving certificate they hopelessly failed in the examination,&rdquo; not calling any attention to the fact that there is an apparent mix-up there of different systems.  But the charge is perfectly clear, namely, that after a number of years at school the children who leave school are practically no more educated than when they entered. As I say, that is a question that has been put again and again.  Deputy Byrne said that anyone who has had experience of education on the Continent or across the Channel is aware that the system of education in this country is fifty years behind as compared with that of Great Britain, and a hundred years behind as compared with that of the Continent.  If there is truth in that statement, it would be very hard to justify a vote for four and a half millions. 
     I suggest at the start that so far as many of these criticisms are concerned, we gain nothing in the cause of education, even as a kind of sermon to stimulate teachers, by exaggeration, an exaggeration that is by no means confined to Deputy Byrne.  It is very hard&mdash;almost impossible&mdash;to compare the values of systems of education in different countries. 
     It is extremely difficult even to compare what seems most easy to compare &mdash;for instance, the number of hours at school that are attended by children in the year.  That might seem a simple thing, and yet there are all sorts of traps when comparisons are instituted in that direction.  Much more difficult is it to deal with such intangible values as those of educational results as a whole.  The only thing people can do is to speak of their experience, or if they have not any experience, to indicate what their knowledge is from conversations with people who have had experience of education in different countries. People who have experience of the educational systems in this country,   in Great Britain and even in Scotland, where things are supposed to be much better, are by no means convinced that we are fifty years behind, or twenty-five years behind, and, so far as results are concerned, that we are anything at all behind the times when compared with those two countries.  Again, remember that different people will give you different views, according to their outlook, according to their luck in meeting good or bad schools.  But I have heard precisely the same story.  Again and again we hear the same complaint made by people in England as to the unsatisfactory position of education there.  In fact, I did hear in Scotland that Scotland would be an excellent   country were it not for the weather and the teachers.  I think we have rather similar complaints in this country. Thirty years ago in Scotland, we are told, the people turned out of the elementary schools were well taught. Now they are nothing of the kind&mdash; everything is slipshod.  Exactly the same comparisons are made.  These comparisons are and will be made to the end of time. 
     I move to report progress. 
     Progress ordered to be reported. 
     The Dail went out of Committee. 
     Progress reported; the Committee to sit again to-morrow. 
     The Dail adjourned at 10.30 p.m. 
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - CERTIFICATES FOR SUBSCRIBERS TO DAIL LOAN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state when it is proposed to issue saving certificates to the following subscribers to the Dail Loan, 1919-20:&mdash;Mrs. Catherine Comaskey, Carnagh Lower, Loughduff, Co. Cavan; William Reilly, Mullaghboy, Carrigan, Ballinagh; Maggie Clarke, Alacken, Cavan; and Francis McManus, Mullen, Knockaranew P.O., Enniskillen, Co. Fermanagh. 
     
     
      
       Authority to issue Savings Certificates to William Reilly, of Mullaghboy, and Maggie Clarke, of Alacken, to enable them to obtain repayment in accordance with the terms of the Dail Eireann Loans and Funds Act, 1924, will be issued to the Department of Posts and Telegraphs within the next few days.  There is no record in my Department of subscriptions having been paid to the Loan by Mrs. Catherine Comaskey or Mr. Francis McManus. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ALLEGED DELAY IN REFUNDING LOAN SUBSCRIPTIONS. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state what is the cause of delay in refunding the Dail Eireann Loan subscription to Thomas O'Neill, 12 William Street, New Ross. 
     
     
      
       Mr. O'Neill's application for repayment was received on the 30th April, 1928, and the delay which has since occurred was due partly to pressure of work, but chiefly to the fact that Mr. O'Neill did not furnish a receipt for his subscription.  Authority to issue a Savings Certificate, which will enable this subscriber to obtain repayment, will be issued to the Department of Posts and Telegraphs within the next few days. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance what is the cause of delay in refunding the Dail Eireann Loan subscription to Mary K. Sutton, Ballynaboola, Co. Wexford. 
     
     
      
       The delay in authorising repayment of an amount stated to have been subscribed to the Dail Eireann Loan by Mrs. Mary K. Sutton, of Ballynaboola, New Ross, is due to the fact that the particulars submitted by her cannot be reconciled with those of any entry in the primary register of subscribers.  Mrs. Sutton, in her application, stated that she subscribed in the name of Miss Mary K. Brennan, but she was unable to furnish a receipt, and the collector, when applied to for particulars of the subscription, replied stating that he was not sure about the amount. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - REPAYMENT OF SUBSCRIPTION TO DAIL BONDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he will state when it is intended to repay to C. Balfe, Strand Street, Skerries, the money he subscribed to the Dail Bonds. 
     
     
      
       There is no record in my Department of a subscription having been paid to the Dail Eireann Internal Loan by Mr. C. Balfe, of Strand Street, Skerries. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF DIGAN ESTATE (PORTARLINGTON). 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether it is the intention of the Irish Land Commission to acquire the estate of Mrs. Digan, situate at Moavane, Portarlington, Offaly. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to have been inspected and reported on. The Land Commissioners consider that these lands are quite unsuitable for the purposes of the Land Acts, and are not therefore prepared to take further action with regard to them. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF DUFF ESTATE (OFFALY). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether it is the intention of the Land Commission to acquire the estate of J. Duff, situate at Kilcurley, Tubber, Offaly, for distribution, and if so, whether he will state what stage the proceedings have reached. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to are a holding, comprising 169a. 1r. 25p., held by Mrs. Kathleen Duff, wife of Patrick Joseph Duff, situate on the estate of the trustees of G.W. Marsh, deceased, which is being dealt with by the Land Commission under the Land Act, 1923.  The Commissioners propose to resume the holding, but an objection to its resumption has been lodged by the tenant and is pending for hearing before the Court of the Irish Land Commission. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - CONGESTS IN CO. MAYO. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that acute congestion exists on the De Clifford estate, Co. Mayo; that the estate was acquired by the Congested Districts Board in 1913; that the holdings of the tenants have not yet been vested; and whether he will state what steps, if any, are being taken by the Irish Land Commission to acquire the large grazing ranches held by Messrs. Cowan and Algie for the relief of the tenants of uneconomic holdings on the estate. 
     
     
     
      
       As the Deputy has already been informed, the late Congested Districts Board resumed and distributed three farms in the De Clifford estate containing 352 acres.  The Land Commission are in negotiation with regard to the holdings of the persons referred to in the latter part of the question. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that acute congestion exists in the parishes of Balla, Kiltimagh, and Mayo; and whether he will state what steps, if any, are being taken to acquire the large grazing ranches held by Mr. John McEllin, at Brownhall and Brize, which contain over 800 acres, for the relief of the existing congestion. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that there is some congestion in the district mentioned notwithstanding the lands already acquired and allotted.  The acquisition of lands, including the lands of John McEllin, under the provisions of the Land Act, 1923, for the relief of the remaining congests is under consideration. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DIVISION OF MAYO LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will state the cause of the delay in striping and dividing the lands known as Dillon's Farm, More O'Farrell Estate, Tulrahan.  Ballyhaunis, which has been let in grazing by the Irish Land Commission for the past six years; and whether he will state the amount received for grazing rent by the Land Commission for this farm since it was acquired. 
     
     
      
       The lands of Carrowneden known as Dillon's Farm on the More O'Farrell Estate were acquired by the late Congested Districts Board and they are being dealt with by the Land Commission as quickly as circumstances permit in connection with a scheme of rearrangement of neighbouring townlands. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF HOLLYMOUNT AND LAHINCH DEMESNE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he will   state what steps are being taken by the Irish Land Commission to acquire the Hollymount and Lahinch Demesne, held by Messrs. McCarton Bros., Hollymount, Co. Mayo, which contains 750 acres, for the purpose of relieving the congestion which exists in the parishes of Kilcommon and Crossboyne. 
     
     
      
       Proceedings were instituted under the provisions of the Irish Land Act, 1903, for the acquisition of the lands of Lehinch Demesne and Hollymount Demesne, County Mayo, which are subject to Land Purchase Annuity, and these lands were published in &ldquo;Iris Oifigiuil&rdquo; in a Provisional List of lands which, if not excluded in consequence of a valid objection, would become vested in the Land Commission on the appointed day. 
       The owners have exercised their rights to apply for alternative lands equally suitable and of not less value, and the matter is under consideration. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - CONGESTION IN SHRULE (MAYO). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Fisheries whether he is aware that acute congestion exists in the parish of Shrule, Co. Mayo; that several petitions were forwarded during the past four years on behalf of the tenants of uneconomic holdings on the De Clifford Estate, to the Irish Land Commission requesting the acquisition of the farm held by Mrs. Cummins, Tuam, Co. Galway, on the De Clifford Estate surrounding the town of Shrule, and whether he will state what steps are being taken by the Land Commission to acquire this farm for the neighbouring congests. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission is aware of the circumstances of the agricultural landholders in the parish of Shrule, and they have under consideration the acquisition of the holding of John Commons in the townland of Shrule. 
     
   
 