 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 10.30 a.m. 
   
   
     EASTER RECESS. 
     
      
       I intend on the Adjournment to-day to move that the Dail adjourn until the 18th April.  It is not my intention to take the Budget on that day but in the following week. 
     
     
      
       I desire to give notice that on the Motion for the Adjournment to-day I shall raise the matter arising out of the Minister's reply to Question 12 on the Order Paper. 
     
     
      
       Would it be possible to adjourn until the 25th April? I am speaking on behalf of the farmers. This is the busiest season of the year, and most of us would like to be at home during the Spring.  Perhaps the President would agree to my suggestion. 
     
     
      
       I have calculated the number of weeks from the 25th April to the 29th June and I find that there are ten weeks.  Allowing for the same length of time for Government business as has been given to it during the last few weeks, I think that something like 100 hours would be available for such business.  If we sit during the whole month of July I find that at the same rate it would absorb practically the whole time to get through the Estimates. I put it to Deputy Jordan whether it would not be better to take an extra week now for business in order that we would be able to adjourn a week earlier in the summer.  That was the intention I had, and I thought that that, perhaps, might be a more agreeable step.  By meeting on the 18th, 19th and 20th April we would have an opportunity of getting on with the Estimates, and it would certainly save time for the harvesting operations later. 
     
     
      
       It is equally important from the farmers' point of view to have as much time as possible at home at present.  It has been an abnormally wet year and nothing has so   far been done in the way of putting in crops. 
     
     
      
       Personally, I agree with Deputy Jordan.  It has been a very bad year so far as the farmers are concerned and they have not been able to do their ordinary work up to the present.  I suggest that if the House would agree to sit from Tuesday every week, instead of starting on Wednesday, as at present, we might get the time which the President requires. 
     
     
      
       That is after the 25th April? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I find that there is a disposition on the part of most Deputies against that suggestion.  They say that if the Dail sits on Tuesday it really means getting home only for the week-end, from Saturday to Monday, and that that time does not enable them to do their own business.  That applies particularly to farmers. 
     
     
      
       I suggest that after the 25th April we could sit late.  When Deputies are here on Wednesday and Thursday I do not think that they mind sitting a few hours later each evening, say, up to 10.30. Most Deputies would prefer to have Tuesday free and to sit late on Wednesday and Thursday. 
     
     
      
       I would be agreeable to sit until 10.30 on Wednesday and Thursday, assuming there was no adjournment, as, if there is an adjournment, it really means that we sit only an extra hour though we are here two hours longer. 
     
     
      
       For anyone engaged in business, as a large number of Deputies here are, it would be practically impossible to sit four days a week, as it would mean neglecting their own business. Three days a week would, in my opinion, be the maximum time that we could sit, unless, of course, there was something exceptional, such as the Budget. 
     
     
      
       The suggestion is that we should now make an order that on the rising of the House   to-day the Dail should adjourn until Wednesday, 18th April.  A suggestion has also been made that we should adjourn until the following Wednesday, the 25th April.  In addition, there is a further suggestion that we should meet four days a week in order to make up for the time lost by giving the extra week suggested by Deputy Jordan, or that, if we do not meet four days a week, we should sit later on Wednesday and Thursday. 
     
     
      
       Our view is that an adjournment to the 18th April would be long enough.  In our view, when Deputies accept election to this House, they must be prepared to accept the inconvenience that attaches to the position. The farmers of Ireland are not all in this House.  A small number of them are here.  We think that there is considerable work to be done here. Leaving out Government business altogether, there are a number of motions standing in the name of private Deputies, and we would not like to see them put back for a long time.  The President occasionally complains that there is not enough time devoted throughout the week to Government business.  If he finds that that is so, perhaps he could arrange to meet on Tuesday, when the whole time of the Dail could be devoted to Government business.  We think that an adjournment to the 18th April would be long enough and that four days a week, if necessary, should be the normal sitting of the Dail.  If it is decided to sit only three days a week, we are prepared to sit later on those days. 
     
     
      
       We quite agree that an adjournment to the 18th April is long enough, or even an adjournment until next Wednesday week, but we realise that it has been an abnormal year so far as the farmers are concerned and that they have not been able to do their ordinary work.  We also realise that the majority of Deputies here are farmers, or are connected with farming in some way. 
     
     
      
       As Deputy Morrissey has said, farming operations are abnormally late this spring, so that if we could get three weeks now it would   be better that the Session should continue longer in the summer, as there would be less inconvenience from the farmers' point of view.  I would also be in favour of sitting three days a week, with a late sitting on Wednesday and Thursday. 
     
     
      
       I can quite see the point of Deputy Lemass.  A fortnight's adjournment might suit city men all right, but I think that Deputy Lemass will agree that the farming community are a rather important section.  If he will consult the farmers on his own benches I think he will find that they are as anxious as we are to adjourn to the date I suggest. 
     
     
      
       I am not talking of the farming community.  They are not in this House, and it will not make any difference to them as a whole whether the Dail adjourns until the 18th or the 25th April. 
     
     
      
       I can speak on behalf of the farmers, and I think if farmers in this House are to neglect their own business for public business this is not the place for them. 
     
     
      
       Quite right. 
     
     
      
       I think we should try and get all the time we can for public business here. 
     
     
      
       As a farmer, I would re-echo the same view.  We are paid to come here and do public business. 
     
     
      
       Shall we make an order to adjourn until the 18th April? 
     
     
      
       That is the best I can do.  I find that not alone farmers but business people experience great difficulty in spending more than three days a week here on public business. I am speaking for the larger number of those from whom I have been trying to find out what would be most convenient. It is practically impossible to get a full House on a Tuesday.  I am prepared to leave the matter to a vote of the House. 
     
     
     
      
       We would agree with the President that in order to avoid the inconvenience of sitting four days a week, if it were necessary, we would sit late on three days a week. With regard to the proposal to adjourn until the 25th April, even though I am entirely a city man, I agree that this year is, perhaps, an exceptional one, and if it would inconvenience a big number of farmers, even in this House, to meet earlier, I think we might come to an arrangement to adjourn until 25th April. 
     
     
      
       The question has not been debated in a very regular fashion, as some Deputies have spoken more than once, but what I have before me is technically a motion that the Dail adjourn until the 18th April.  If necessary, I would take an amendment from Deputy Jordan to adjourn until the 25th April, but, if the expressions of the President, Deputy O'Kelly and Deputy O'Connell are to be taken as representative of their respective Parties, we do not require any amendment.  We could take it as an arrangement, but we would require to be clear about it. 
     
     
      
       Is the President moving his motion? 
     
     
      
       The first motion was that the House would adjourn until the 18th April, and there was a suggested amendment, which has not been formally moved, to make the date the 25th April.  I can put a motion or an amendment, or I can take it as a matter of agreement. 
     
     
      
       If I am in order, I move as an amendment that the Dail adjourn until the 25th April. 
     
     
      
       Before the amendment is put to the Dail, let us be frank and honest as to where we stand. Fianna Fail Deputies throughout the country and during the last General Election, as well as the previous one, commented on the amount of work done in the Dail and on the short amount of time devoted to it.  I put it to them to-day, if they are honest in what they say and about which they protested at public meetings, they should vote for the motion now.  We   are sent here to do public business, and I, for one, shall never again vote for an extra long adjournment. 
     
     
      
       You voted for it at Xmas. 
     
     
      
       I had to, but I will never do it again, because I may tell you it caused a good deal of comment in the country, and apart from that some of us who live in cities have infinitely more work to do at home than we have here.  Perhaps that may seem a selfish viewpoint, but at the same time we have to remember that in the city of Cork to-day a Commissioner functions where the Corporation functioned, and there is no Poor Law Board.  Some people may say, &ldquo;Thank God for that,&rdquo; but, at any rate, the business proper to the Poor Law Guardian and the Corporator now very largely devolves on the local T.D.  I am put in the position as it exists owing to the Commissioner system.  If the farming community are so largely represented in the Dail I do not wonder that agriculture is in such a depressed condition. The farmers in the Dail want a long adjournment for the purpose of attending to their business. 
     
     
      
       Not all of them. 
     
     
      
       I agree.  The only farmers I know in the Dail are those in the Fianna Fail Party, because the old Farmers' Party has ceased to exist, except for one member who is now Secretary to one of the Departments&mdash; not the Department of Agriculture.  At any rate I want to make my personal protest against a longer adjournment than the 18th of April.  I think that would be quite sufficient, and would give all those who want recreation and rest plenty of time to recuperate and prepare long speeches. 
     
     
      
       I think Deputy Anthony has made a good speech in favour of the adjournment to the 25th. He says he cannot attend to the work of his constituency while in Dublin, but if he gets three weeks' time he could do all the work for the city of Cork.  I think the farming community is fairly   strongly represented amongst all Parties in the House.  I do not mind these little slurs that are cast by members of other Parties at our attitude to-day. Everyone realises that we have had an abnormally bad season, and that work is backward everywhere.  This country is largely dependent on the farmer to pull it out of the bad condition in which it is now. and if the farmers do not get an opportunity to attend to their business for the next three weeks, maybe in six months Deputies may be complaining that the crops are not there.  In view of the weather conditions that have existed an adjournment until the 25th would give us an opportunity of getting in our crops, and we could then come back here in good humour, and hope for a good and a bountiful harvest. 
     
     
      
       I agree with Deputy Anthony that it is no wonder the farming community are depressed when this is the type of representative they had for the last five or six years.  If Deputy O'Donovan's assertion is right, the work cannot be done unless he is at home.  Well, if the farmers' representatives here are too close-fisted to pay out of their £1 a day someone at home to look after their business, I do not see what they want here at all.  I think, honestly speaking, with the amount of business that we see before us, the adjournment should be only until the 12th of April.  I do not see the use of long adjournments at all. We are brought up on Tuesdays and generally sit for four or five hours on Wednesday and Thursday evenings, and we are in such a hurry home on Friday evening that we have to sit early that day.  I cannot see why the Dail would not meet every day of the week. At least it should sit at 12 o'clock every day it meets. 
     
     
      
       And on Sunday evenings too. 
     
     
      
       Yes, Sunday evenings, too.  We have the closure every day. We are told that we have not time to debate these things.  The President said   he had not time to devote to private Deputies' business.  Let us extend the time for sitting and then we will have time.  I think this adjournment week after week, coming up to spend two days a week here and then going home, is ridiculous. 
     
     
      
       I have made one suggestion in the interests of all parties in the House, because I think there is a danger of a split in every Party on this.  My suggestion is that we meet on 24th, and that we take Deputy Fahy's motion in connection with the Gaeltacht on that day, taking the Budget on the 25th.  But that is the only Tuesday I could manage to persuade people to come up. 
     
     
      
       We have heard the Farmer Deputies of the different Parties expressing their opinions as to the period of the adjournment.  I have been talking to some of the farmers in my area during the past three or four weeks and they have been discussing with me the nature of the business that is being carried on here, and the amount of talk that there has been.  Many of the farmers in that area are of opinion that the bad weather we have been having for some time has had something to do with the kind of talk that has been going on here.  I am inclined to believe that if we had agreement as to the period of the adjournment the clerk of the weather, who has been very angry with the people, and with the farmers in particular, might be willing to be more lenient to the farmers during the period of the adjournment, and if they have some fine weather they will be able to do a good deal of work that they have not been able to do since we met here in the early part of the year. Many of the people that Deputy Jordan is claiming to speak for are inclined to think that the amount of talk we have been carrying on here has had a good deal to do with the bad weather. 
     
     
      
       As a Dublin Deputy, I must take it as a compliment to the city that the Cork Deputies are in favour of a short adjournment.  Personally, I think we should not take into account the private business of Deputies in fixing the date when we are   to reassemble.  We have been elected as representatives of the people, and it is as such that we meet here.  Every Deputy, when he stood for election, knew that there was going to be certain personal inconveniences associated with his holding of the office.  If the date on which the Dail is to reassemble is put back in order to meet the convenience of one section of the community, perhaps another section represented here might have strong arguments to advance in favour of an adjournment over the whole summer. Personally, I think that when the President admitted that for the convenience of Government business and of the Dail generally, it would be advisable to meet on the 18th, he should adhere to that decision, and, if it is necessary, let us take the views of Deputies present by a vote.  Somebody said that there will be a division in all Parties on this question, but the views of the majority will count.  I do not think that we should agree to take the date of the reassembly after the 18th April. 
     
     
      
       I do not believe that the Farmer Deputies will create a revolution in food production in this country by the amount of work they will do when they go home.  Perhaps if they were politicians all their lives, as I have been, they would not be very fond of work.  If Deputy Davin and his Farmer friends would agree that we should spend the extra time in preparing an aerial drainage scheme as well as an arterial drainage scheme, perhaps that would meet their wishes.  I think that the farmers' interests could be best looked after here as a whole, and if we devote the extra time to thinking out schemes for agriculture and for the farming interests, I think we would do much more for the country than we will by going home and pretending that we are working when we are not really working. 
     
     
      
       I will put the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I am agreeable to take the President's suggestion to reassemble on the 24th. 
       Amendment put. 
     
     
       
        The Dail divided: Ta, 47; Nil, 56. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Denis Allen. Ernest Henry Alton. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Michael Brennan. Sean Brodrick. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. Richard Corish. James Crowley. John Daly. Michael Davis. Peter de Loughrey. James N. Dolan. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. John J. Hassett. Thomas Hennessy. Mark Henry. Michael Jordan.  
             Patrick Leonard. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Matthews. Martin McDonogh. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Daniel Morrissey. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. Timothy Joseph Murphy. John Thomas Nolan. Bartholomew O'Connor. Timothy Joseph O'Donovan. John F. O'Hanlon. Daniel O'Leary. John J. O'Reilly. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Patrick Reynolds. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. 
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Frank Aiken. Richard Anthony. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Gerald Boland. Daniel Bourke. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Henry Broderick. Patrick Clancy. James Colbert. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Hugh Colohan. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. Dan Corkery. Martin John Corry. William T. Cosgrave. Fred Hugh Crowley. William Davin. Thomas Derrig. Edward Doyle. Peadar Sean Doyle. Frank Fahy. Hugo Flinn. Andrew Fogarty. Denis J. Gorey. John Goulding. Sean Hayes. 
             John Hennigan. Patrick Hogan (Clare). Patrick Houlihan. Stephen Jordan. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killilea. Michael Kilroy. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben Maguire. Thomas McEllistrim. Michael Og McFadden. Thomas Mullins. Thomas J. O'Connell. Patrick Joseph O'Dowd. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. James Ryan. Martin Sexton. Timothy Sheehy (Tipp.). Patrick Smith. John Tubridy. Richard Walsh. George Wolfe.   
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:-Ta: Deputies M. Jordan and O'Donovan.  Nil: Deputies Anthony and Killane. 
     Amendment declared lost. 
     Ordered: That at the conclusion of the day's sitting the Dail adjourn to the 18th April. 
   
   
     QUESTION ON THE ADJOURNMENT. 
     
      
       Deputy Lemass has given notice that on the motion for the adjournment to-day he will raise a matter arising out of Question No. 12 on to-day's Order Paper. I think that is the only matter that can be raised to-day. 
     
     
      
       With regard to my question, will I have priority when we resume after the adjournment? 
     
     
     
      
       I will try to arrange that. 
     
     
      
       Might I suggest to the Minister for Fisheries that he should spend his holidays at Knockadoon?  He said the other day that he did not know the place. 
     
   
   
     ARTERIAL DRAINAGE (MINOR SCHEMES) BILL, 1928&mdash;REPORT. 
     
      
       I move: That the Bill be received for final consideration. 
     
     
      
       I wish to raise what is perhaps a formal point and perhaps more in connection with the Bill.  It is a point that was discussed on the Committee Stage.  According to the title of the Bill, schemes are limited to arterial drainage, but according to the text of the Bill it seems to me that its scope is much wider.  Under Section 2 we find that any &ldquo;three or more persons being occupiers of lands which are liable to be flooded or injured by water or&rdquo;&mdash;I ask the Dail to note the word &ldquo;or&rdquo; there&mdash;&ldquo;which are capable of being improved by drainage&rdquo; may do so and so.  It came out in the discussion on the Bill that it was clearly the intention of the Minister to make the Bill such that schemes carried out under it could only apply to arterial drainage.  Many Deputies seemed to think that the Bill was intended to apply to lands such as we all know need drainage, but which could not be called arterial drainage.  It seems to me that if the Bill becomes law in this form it will give rise to questions which will be very difficult to settle, such as whether the title is overriding the text or not.  I submit the matter ought to be considered between this and the consideration of the Bill by the other House.  If it be found that the point I am making is a good one, then it can be made quite clear by amendment what the intention of the Bill is. 
     
     On the Committee Stage there was quite clearly a difference of opinion between certain Deputies and the Minister as to what the actual effect of the Bill was.  My point in rising now is to give an opportunity to have the matter   considered in the interval that will elapse between now and the sending of the Bill to the other House so that it can be settled quite definitely. 
     
      
       Would I be in order in asking that the Minister should agree to defer the Report Stage of this Bill for the present in order that consideration might be given to the insertion of additional amendments making this Bill, which I consider a very important one, applicable to bogs and turbaries? The drainage of bogs and turbaries is a matter of very great importance, but in order to fit work of that kind into this Bill it will be necessary to have, I think, a new section inserted.  With the exception of one or two little items, the machinery of the Bill is applicable to bogs.  As regards the drainage of bogs, the question of assessment to the benefited land arises.  That makes a very big difference.  Turf banks and turbaries are held under all sorts of conditions.  For the most part they are situate at very long distances from the homes of their holders.  There is another point, that a lot of them are not rated at all, at least they are not rated against the people who really get the benefit of them. 
     
     If county councils undertake arterial drainage in the vicinity of bogs for the purpose of draining turf banks, they will have to be empowered under some section to make an assessment on the benefited land, but not on the holding of the benefited person, because the benefited land, if I may call it land, is not rated at all.  Another point is that the period for repayment of the money advanced would have to be necessarily short where you are dealing with bogs. The reason for that is that bogs are cut out quickly, and after a certain period of years, would have outlived their usefulness.  In addition, the county councils would have to be relieved of the responsibility for maintenance because the maintenance of bog drains is a matter which would probably incur very heavy responsibility. Further, an arterial drain made around a bog may in ten or fifteen years have outlived its usefulness, and may simply become a kind of old drain that would really be a source of danger to stock, etc.  In a case like that the county   council might be responsible.  I think that, if the two points I have made, one with regard to assessment and the other the continuing liability for maintenance, were provided for in the Bill, it would really become a very useful measure for the country. 
     Since I came here I have had more complaints about the drainage of bogs than of anything else.  I know myself of cases where people are, so to speak, walking over bogs, getting about half the turf out of them and leaving the rest there, and all because of the want of drainage.  I know various bogs in my own locality which could be improved by a small expenditure of sums, say, of £100 or £200.  If county councils were to do that they would have to get the power to assess a rate on the holding, not of the benefited land, but of the beneficiary.  As the county councils have not that power at present, they could not leave themselves liable for the cost of maintenance.  I hope the Minister will meet the points I have made. 
     
      
       In reply to the points raised by Deputy Thrift, the wording of Section 2 in the Bill is exactly the same as the wording of Section 2 in the Arterial Drainage Act of 1925, and I am not aware of any legal difficulty having arisen under that Act because of any person wanting to have thorough drainage carried out. As Deputy Thrift says, the point can be further considered, and, if necessary, can be amended in the Seanad. It is quite possible that we have to be more careful of the wording in the matter of minor schemes under arterial drainage.  The reason for taking descriptions from the 1925 Act was to make it perfectly clear that this Bill is simply an adjunct to the 1925 Act, and that it does not involve a difference of principle in what constitutes arterial drainage.  In reply to Deputy Brennan, it is possible a bog that might come into the drainage scheme under this particular Bill is not rated, but the question as to whether the land is rated or not does not enter into it. What does enter in is the extent of the annual value by which the land is supposed to be benefited by the scheme.   While in most cases the annual valuation and the possible increase in that valuation guide the surveyors in estimating the amount of benefit to the land, they are not confined within the terms of this Bill to that.  When a scheme is being made and the estimated benefit is being examined, it may be that the land would be of such a nature that perhaps even a land valuer might assess his benefits on the ratio of area, or some other ratio.  He is not bound on the question of valuation. 
       The only thing that binds the land valuer is that in estimating the benefit the land may be expected to derive from drainage is that he adopts the formula that can in equity apply to the different areas of benefited land he has examined, so that the question of any part of a man's land being a bog and not being valued has not, under the 1925 Act, given rise to difficulties of any kind.  Bogs of the kind the Deputy referred to have been drained as part of the drainage schemes under the 1925 Act.  It is simply a question for the purpose of the drainage rate of finding the ratio of benefit, so that the completed cost can be divided over the different lands for the purpose of collecting the drainage rate.  I do not think it is possible, if a particular piece of bog has been benefited, and a drainage rate is being put on the owner in respect of that bog, that it can be regarded in any way that that drainage rate should apply to a few of his fields or to his holding.  He is rated in respect of the bog.  If any question arises as to the desirability of having the actual cost of the scheme collected by a drainage rate in a shorter time for a bog than for any other kind of land, I do not think it would be practicable to arrange for that, for there will be very few cases in which land that is simply a bog will be dealt with.  If you have a drainage scheme carried out in which you have certain land benefited in an adjacent bog, it would be very difficult to arrange that the drainage rate over the non-bog land would run over a different period to the drainage rate for bog lands.  I think the Deputy is raising hypothetical questions. 
     
     It is rather news to me that the county council is responsible for the maintenance of an arterial drainage   scheme, and that if somebody's cow fell into a river or stream the county council is to be liable for it.  I think if a cow fell into a stream that the county council would prosecute the person owning the cow for interfering with the arterial drainage scheme.  I suggest that a point like that can receive full consideration between this and the time that the Bill comes on for discussion in the Seanad, and that we can more effectively deal with the matter when the Bill is going through the Seanad than by having a further discussion on it on an adjourned Report Stage.  I do not want to press the Final Stages of the Bill to-day, but I think the course I suggested is the most common-sense way of dealing with the matter.  We have given the Bill very full consideration, and, as I have explained, it is a month since the Second Reading took place.  I do not think that Deputy Professor Thrift was quite right when he said there was rather a difference of opinion on the Committee Stage as to what exactly was involved as regards drainage under this Bill.  It was rather the bog question that arose.  I am entirely in the hands of the House in this matter, but I think such points as remain after the discussion here, and the two small points that now arise, can be more effectively dealt with if we let the Bill go into the hands of the Seanad and give the Seanad the opportunity of having the Bill before them for some weeks before they begin to consider it after Easter. 
     
      
       Bogs are very peculiar, and the drainage of them is a different matter to ordinary drainage. If you are draining low-lying lands you make your drain in the best place to get a fall for the water.  In bogs you may make your drain in a place that is most suitable this year but that would be unsuitable in a few years' time.  Repayment with regard to the initial outlay in the drainage of bogs ought to be put on a different basis to that on other lands.  Very often the landlord made a drain around or across a bog. He did good and useful work in draining the bog for a number of years, and he gave people the opportunity of opening up the bog.  I think it would be a good thing for the county councils to   follow the example of the landlords and take steps to get that work done. 
     
     
      
       That rather suggests that the financial aspect of arterial drainage in connection with bogs is different from the financial aspect where there are no bogs, and that it is going to be very costly. 
     
     
      
       I would not say so. 
     
     
      
       If a certain amount of money is spent on a particular place and it is only going to give value for a certain number of years, although you want to have the money collected, if there is no cost for maintenance, then there is going to be no maintenance rate.  If there is effective drainage, the full value of the scheme is got out of it. so that the work that is carried out, if the main fall of the water shifts away to another place, is effective and the land is fully and permanently improved. 
       
         Mr. KILLANE  rose. 
     
     
      
       I am going to hear Deputy Killane, although as a matter of fact I presumed the Minister was concluding the debate.  As to Deputy Brennan's point, that surely should have been raised by way of an amendment on the Committee Stage, rather than now.  When you get to the Report Stage of a Bill with no amendment on the Paper, really you are precluded from discussing anything but what is in the Bill, and Deputy Brennan wants to make a substantial alteration without having any amendment down. 
     
     
      
       Really, what I wanted to know was whether I would be in order in asking to have the consideration of the Bill adjourned, as this is a very valuable point and it would be a great loss if it were not included in the Bill. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy wants to put something into the Bill, and it is rather late for that on the Report Stage.  I do not think it would be in order to move, in the case of a Bill that has been a reasonable time before the House, to postpone   it for the purpose of putting in an amendment about which, after hearing the matter, I have some doubt whether it could be put into this particular Bill, although I am not deciding that now. 
     
     
      
       There is a great deal in what Deputy Brennan has said.  No money spent on drainage will give as good a return as money spent on bog drainage.  Where bogs are not drained an immense amount of waste occurs. Deputies who do not know anything about bogs do not know that, and often-times Deputies who know something about bogs do not see that, or take it into consideration.  Everything possible should be done to facilitate the drainage of bogs.  They are a national asset in connection with the supply of fuel. The full value cannot be got out of many bogs owing to the want of drainage. The bottom portion of the bog is the best portion, and that is often destroyed by working a bog which has not been drained.  If it is possible to have a scheme for the drainage of bogs it should be proceeded with, and now is the time to do it in connection with this Bill, rather than having to introduce an entirely new Bill.  When the House realises the waste that takes place in connection with the working of bogs they will regret that the drainage of bogs was not undertaken before this. 
     
     
      
       Might I say a word in explanation?  I did not raise this question to delay the Bill or prevent its passing to the Seanad, but merely to draw attention to what might be the meaning and effect of words in the Bill&mdash;&ldquo;or lands which are capable of being improved by drainage.&rdquo;  I hope the Bill will pass this House to-day, but the Minister should consider that point further before the Bill goes to the Seanad, because I do not think it is a sufficient answer to say that the words occur in the Act which refers to major schemes.  The point is most unlikely to arise in connection with major schemes.  It might arise in connection with minor schemes. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
     
   
   
     FIFTH STAGE. 
     
     
      
       I move: &ldquo;That the Bill do now pass.&rdquo; 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Bill ordered to be sent to the Seanad accordingly. 
     
   
   
     FINANCIAL RESOLUTION. 
     The Dail went into Committee on Finance. 
     Debate resumed on financial motion by the Minister for Finance (No. 3): 
     &ldquo;That it is expedient to amend the law relating to Customs and Inland Revenue (including Excise), and to make further provision in connection with finance.&rdquo; 
     
      
       Will the Ceann Comhairle let us know who has spoken on this motion already? 
     
     
      
       It is a long list, and I shall read it if the Deputy wishes. 
     
     
      
       Is it not in Committee, so that we can speak again? 
     
     
      
       That is technically so, but as a matter of fact, on a motion of this kind, where you have had Second Reading speeches, it is not usual to speak twice, but the right exists, of course.  I think Deputy Matthews moved the adjournment of the debate on the last occasion, and can resume now if he wishes. 
     
     
      
       This debate is nearly past history now, but I wish to say that I am opposed to tariffs on industrial products, because I think they are against the interests of agriculture, which is the most important industry in the country.  That industry is in a more serious condition than the House realises.  The majority of this House agrees that we ourselves cannot fix the prices of our agricultural produce. They are fixed for us by a world competitive free market in England.  Now, if we cannot get higher prices, is not the only alternative, if we are to market at a profit, to try and reduce the cost of production and the price of marketing?  I think that tariffs on industrial products would not tend in   this direction.  Some Deputies deplore that we have only one customer and one market for our agricultural exports, and that that is an unsatisfactory state of affairs.  The reason that we have only one market and one customer is that the British market is the best market we can find.  Other markets have been explored and found unsatisfactory.  Then, instead of deploring that market, should we not rather take advantage of our proximity and try to make the best use of that market by putting our agricultural surplus products in the best possible condition on that market, as cheaply as possible?  Our freights at the present time more or less counteract our advantage and proximity. 
       I speak on behalf of a large section of labour not represented by the Labour Party in this House, the smaller farmers who are workers to all intents and purposes.  They exist by their labour, and anyone who knows their condition will agree they are the worst paid class of labourers in the country. You want to live amongst them to realise the hardships and the difficulties of their existence.  Their whole outcry is that they would be all right and able to make ends meet only for the cost of the things they have to buy such as clothes, boots, etc.  The small farmers, whose cash income is a very limited one, are the people who are asked to pay for high wages in our protected industries.  I do not think that is just or equitable.  It is so long since this debate took place that reference to any of the speeches made by Deputies seems like going into past history.  Deputy Lemass made a statement in which he said: 
       &ldquo;I do not know whether the Ministry are aware of the fact or not, but it is so, that a number of manufacturers of different articles in this country have not applied for the imposition of tariffs on the articles they manufacture, although they believe that it is only through protection that their particular industries can be fostered, because the first result of the imposition of a tariff would be the bringing in here of branches of foreign combines that would crush the native manufacturers.&rdquo; 
     
     
        Does that mean that our manufacturers are inefficient, or does it mean that our labourers are prepared to give a better output to the foreigners than to the native manufacturers, or is it from both causes, and does it mean that tariffs are meant to bolster up inefficiency? Deputy Morrissey made another statement in which he said: 
     &ldquo;We ought to face up to realities in this thing and, as Deputy Ryan said, it is not right to talk about increasing the cost of living.  Tariffs may increase the cost of living, but it might be a good thing if they did. There was talk of boots costing three shillings more than before the tariff was imposed, but the man who, as a result of the tariff, has a wage which enables him to buy a pair of boots does not worry about that.  It does not matter very much to the man who is unemployed, as he has not to worry about the cost of living.&rdquo; 
     Even if a man who is unemployed is only drawing a mere pittance, it is hard to follow the argument that the cost of living does not worry him.  I think it should also be a matter of worry to the Boards of Health, and the taxpayers who have to supply the money that goes to the unemployed, and certainly I think it is a cause of worry to the small farmer who, as I said before, only has a very limited cash income.  I think there is something economically wrong in a food-producing country, whose principal export is her surplus food, that nevertheless the cost of living and rate of wages are higher in many of our trades than in the country in which we want to sell our surplus agricultural produce.  I do not think we can maintain the high cost of living and high wages in protected industries and hope to sell our agricultural food supplies at a profit in a world competitive and free market. 
     
       Professor THRIFT  took the Chair. 
     
      
       There are, I suppose, many forms of protection, but we in this country seem to be in the position of always buying the produce we consume and only making rather weak efforts to produce anything that may be necessary.  There are reasons for that state of affairs.  One may be   credit.  It may be that the foreign producer is in a position to give longer and more satisfactory conditions of credit than we may be able to do here in our own home market.  But I think that, generally speaking, the result of not being able to produce at an economical price is brought about by the more highly organised systems in other countries, so that the revival of the agricultural industry here&mdash;the revival is most essential&mdash;I do not think can be brought about on a system of development as we go along.  We seem to have been developing for a hundred years, certainly for the last seventy-five years, through propaganda, through Departments, and other organisations.  We have been attempting to develop the industry, but for one reason or another the methods adopted to develop the industry seem to bring about a rather strange result, and that is, that the remedies seem to be worse than the disease, and we find the industry almost completely killed out to-day.  I am inclined to look at the position from this point of view: That suppose we as a nation, spend here on our own market a couple of millions a year on agricultural produce, and suppose that afterwards we find that we can buy that produce for a million and a half in another country, the nation certainly would suffer half a million of loss. 
     
     In a short time another position would arise out of that, that is that we had saved wages practically to the amount of half a million, and through that saving we had disemployed people who would have spent half a million pounds in the home market.  So the result would seem to be, that although the nation saved that money, in time they would be faced with spending it in some other form, and that is in maintaining the people who were not producing or working.  They cannot live on fresh air, they must be maintained, and I believe, from the farming point of view, that is what is taking place to-day in Ireland.  Farmers have to carry a number of people who are not producing any wealth, because we are simply buying in those markets abroad and giving employment to workers in foreign countries.  It does not follow at   all that we have escaped the burden or the necessity of maintaining those people who are not allowed to produce. Deputy Matthews made some remarks about the importance of the British markets.  Quite so.  The British market, next to another market, is the most important one that we have.  The other market that we are in possession of is this market here in our own country. 
     
      
       What is the value of the two? 
     
     
      
       The British market is the next in value to our own market, because it is the nearest to us. It is the market that is most convenient to us.  We have to pay less freights and we are a shorter time out of our money by selling our produce in that market.  But the market that is most important and most remunerative is our home market.  I call it a development process, and I hold, for one reason or another, that that development process that is on for 75 or 100 years during which we have been trying it out, has not given any results, but that, on the contrary, the industries that we are trying to revive are gradually dying out in spite of that system.  Therefore, it is necessary for us to try some other system, and I believe that the system to be adopted and the system that will bring about success and the revival of that industry is protection.  It is not possible for us, a nation that has no industries, to adopt the system adopted in England, free trade.  I will go a little further and make this remark, but I am certainly not convinced that England is satisfied to-day, or was satisfied even yesterday, with her free trade position. In England they are making efforts, in one direction or another, to adopt the system of protection.  She is making those efforts, and you have her system of subsidising.  A subsidy is, no doubt, protection; it is only a certain amount of camouflage to adopt a system of subsidies and then proclaim to the world that we are a free trade country.  The inclination in England to-day is to return to the system of protection.  All countries have been protected.  All modern countries are protected.  The system of free trade when it was introduced into England, suited England at that moment.  It was a country with a   big manufacturing population, a country possessed of certain new and important inventions, a country that had developed canalisation, and a country more than anything else that controlled the gold.  Those conditions brought about in England a state of affairs that was necessary to compel her to introduce free trade.  She had a huge population, all manufacturing for foreign countries, for the colonies and for several countries that were subsidised by surplus gold.  The consumers in these countries got the surplus gold, and therefore England had a developed or had an assured market for her goods. 
     
     But a change has taken place again and you find that those markets she once possessed are to-day competitors with her, with the result that history is repeating herself and she is going back again to the system of protection.  Protection in this country has had, some months ago and some years ago, a good many opponents who argued and stated that once you protect, the consumer pays.  That altogether depends on the system you adopt.  There are abuses in protected countries, serious abuses which can be eliminated and can be avoided.  A needy Minister for Finance, if he had his way, could certainly compel the consumer to pay up.  He can certainly interfere with many industries through exorbitant taxation, but under modern conditions and under modern Governments that thing does not seem possible, and cases where the consumer may be compelled to pay will be found to be very few, and if the consumer is compelled to pay he is certainly in the position, as producer, of being able to pay.  That point of being able to pay is an all-important one.  It is very little use to a man or to a community to have a low cost of living when they have no money to live by. It makes not the slightest bit of difference to have a high cost of living when you have the cash to buy the necessaries of life.  That is altogether and completely the essence of satisfactory progress.  Protection means this&mdash;England to-day and we ourselves could get over all our difficulties if we could manage to do one thing, and that is to subsidise the consumers.  The banks, no doubt, are in a position to do so. They did it during the war.  It was   certainly very effective from the point of the producer and from the point of view certainly of the consumer.  The consumer had money and that money found its way to the producer and all were happy.  But that system could not be kept permanently in use.  It had to be toned down.  Certain countries adopted a gradual process and other countries a much more abrupt process. In the cases where the process was abrupt certain disasters in business occurred.  Bankruptcies became frequent and the country got into an unfortunate position. 
     
      
       Will the Deputy move the adjournment of the debate? 
     
     
      
       Yes, I move the adjournment of the debate. 
       Debate adjourned accordingly. 
     
     
      
       Could we find out how many Deputies would wish to speak on this motion on its resumption? 
     
     
      
       I do not know if Deputies could give any information on that at present.  Can Deputies say how many would wish to speak on the tariff motion? 
     
     
      
       My remarks in connection with the prisoners will be very short.  I am not going to speak at great length. 
     
     
      
       It is not in connection with Deputy Ruttledge's motion at all.  It is on the tariff motion. 
     
     
      
       We will be glad to have it concluded as soon as possible. 
     
     
      
       Are there any others to speak on this motion besides Deputy O'Reilly? 
     
     
      
       I do not think so. 
     
     
      
       Could it be finished now? 
     
     
      
       It could not. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE DEPUTIES' BUSINESS. - REVIEW OF PRISONERS' CASES&mdash;PROPOSED SELECT COMMITTEE. 
     Debate resumed on the following motion: 
     
       &ldquo;That a Select Committee to be nominated by the Committee of Selection be set up forthwith with power to review the cases of all prisoners who claim that their cases arise out of the civil war or apart from strictly legal considerations have a political aspect, and to recommend to the Executive Council the release of such prisoners.&rdquo;&mdash;(Deputy Patrick J. Ruttledge.) 
     
      
       When this debate finished last evening I was speaking mainly on the question of the people who had escaped from Mountjoy on the 27th November, 1925.  Towards the end I made certain statements with regard to two of those escaped people which contained an error.  I spoke as if Messrs. Fenlon and Lee had been before a court and had been convicted. I think I used words definitely and precisely to that effect, and I tried to withdraw in the confusion of the closing moments on the last day.  I wish to have it quite clear and precise now that the facts with regard to those men were that they were awaiting trial on particular charges, and the escape was managed before they could be brought to trial.  Any words I did use tending to produce the effect that these people had been convicted were quite wrong.  These men were charged and were awaiting trial, and the escape took place before the trial could be achieved. 
     
     I would like to sum up with regard to the Mountjoy people, of whom so much has been made.  I notice that Deputy Morrissey spoke of the hunting and the harassing of men on the run simply because they had escaped from jail, and it formed a large part of Deputy Lemass's statement&mdash;this hunting down of people who had escaped, who had taken advantage of the jail doors being thrown open to walk out.  An attempt was made to throw that cover over those individuals&mdash;that what they were being harassed for, if that word can be applied at all, was simply for the offence of escaping from jail&mdash;jail-breaking.  I want to find out from those putting forward the motion how many of the sixteen individuals actually on that list&mdash;there were nineteen, but three of those were recaptured and served whatever term   was due&mdash;do the House consider should be brought within this resolution, remembering that the resolution, as framed, brings within its scope everybody who claims he is a political prisoner or there is some political motive attaching to the crime for which he was arrested and awaiting trial, or some political idea about the sentence imposed on those who had been brought to trial. 
     I put it to the House definitely that there can be no question of any tinge of political flavour about the cases of the four men who kidnapped Manly in July, 1924, only one of whom is now under detention, that one being specifically brought into this debate by Deputy Ruttledge.  The other three are still at large.  I put it, further, that no matter what beliefs or sympathies Deputies may have, the case of John McGuinness put up here is one which he has definitely put beyond the scope of the resolution, because he has made it clear that those who put forward the resolution do not speak for him.  That is made apparent by the communication addressed to the Press in the last two or three days. 
     I segregated the cases of Carolan, O'Hara and O'Byrne, against whom the offences alleged were organisation of illegal forces and the matter of documents being found in their possession incidental to them.  I simply, for purposes hereafter, stressed the date on which they were arrested&mdash;July, 1925. There was some fortnight's difference between the arrests.  The case of Nugent has been spoken to at some length by the Minister for Justice and I do not care to go into it.  There can be no question of considering as political prisoners the cases of Patrick Ryan or David Reck.  Ryan was arrested, tried, and convicted for the following offence: That in January, 1925, Enniscorthy Gas Works was entered by armed men, who ordered a stoker in the employment of the gas works to leave the premises, and ordered him, further, that with his brother he should leave the county before the following night, and, failing to obey the order, the pair would be executed.  This offence was admitted. 
     
      
       Did the Minister not   accuse these men, the last day, of firing on the Civic Guards? 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       The Minister did, and I refer him to the statement made on Wednesday evening. 
     
     
      
       I cannot contradict the Deputy, but if he says that, I will ask him to produce my words. 
     
     
      
       Certainly.  It will be in the Official Report. 
     
     
      
       The names are correct this time; they were not correct the last time. 
     
     
      
       That all depends on the Deputy's memory as to what I said.  I have not found the memory of Deputies so correct in other cases.  It may be a question of the Deputy being obstinate, but the proof is not here. Patrick Ryan, at any rate, is a man charged with ordering two people to leave a particular county and these two people were to be executed if they failed to obey.  That takes place in 1925, and we are asked to regard these people as political prisoners.  When is this idea of an armed force against unarmed men going to leave the country? In the early part of 1925 we are not supposed to have reached the stage at which this thing is not regarded as intolerable and the man brought up and convicted for that offence is going now to have his case investigated by a Committee of this House, all Committees of this House having previously been tarnished by Deputy de Valera as deciding matters on Party lines.  We are to have such a question as this man's, a question of threatened violence, where a case has been tried by a judge and jury, to be reviewed now by a Committee of Deputies. 
     
     David Reck is connected with the case of Ryan.  When Ryan was being conveyed to Waterford Prison two armed men entered the railway station at Palace East and rescued him from the escort.  Reck was identified as one of the rescue party.  That was a rescue effected under arms in March, 1925. That is therefore put up as a political question.  Again, when is the line to be drawn&mdash;at what date?  Are we to have it for the future that armed rescues can be attempted and possibly achieved,   and, if people are convicted for that, there is going to be a Committee of Deputies of this House set up to review the offence and the sentence on people convicted by a jury and sentenced by a judge Are we again to have to admire the courage of people who carried out these armed rescues, and are we to consider the whole event as a political event and a subject for a Committee of this House, and that the person who carried out this rescue is worthy of having his sentence reviewed and a portion of it remitted? 
     These took place in 1925, a considerable period away from the events of 1921 and 1922.  There are the other cases of Lee and Fenlon, which were mentioned the last day.  These men were awaiting trial.  Certain offences were charged against them, but their escape was effected.  I do not propose to give any statement in regard to them further than stating that the charge was against them, as, if they are recaptured, they will have to stand their trial on particular charges.  Certain charges are hanging over them.  Is it proposed that a Committee of Deputies should be set up to say that people awaiting trial, no matter what offences were charged against them, should be considered as political prisoners, and, I presume, in these cases, released because no sentence was passed upon them and there was no question of a sentence to be modified?  The question of Donnelly could be put up with the cases of Carolan, O'Hara and O'Byrne. Again, it was an arrest&mdash;although the date is a little more material in this case&mdash;on the 13th November, 1925. The date is material for matters on which I have to speak later.  He also was awaiting trial, but it was for being a member of an illegal organisation, and in relation to that charge he was not convicted.  That case ought to go with the cases of Carolan, O'Hara and O'Byrne. 
     Then we have the case of Russell. Is anyone going to demand that his case should be treated as that of a political prisoner when one considers his recent attitude towards the court?  He was not convicted.  He was awaiting trial not merely on the charge of escaping, but on the original charge. He showed a particular attitude   towards the court.  While that attitude is persisted in, will that case be selected as one requiring further review, and should that person be removed from all chance of trial?  Norton was the last case of the sixteen.  He was awaiting trial and was not sentenced.  The charge was that he took part in an illegal court.  The gravamen of the charge was that an illegal court was to try a former member of a particular organisation who was charged with surrendering ammunition.  This other man was courtmartialed, and Norton was one of his judges.  These are the Mountjoy cases about which so much has been made.  It has been definitely put to the Dail that the only thing against these men was that they escaped.  That in itself is an offence, but no one wants to press it at the moment.  There are other offences in connection with them.  Some were convicted and some were awaiting trial. These charges are sufficiently serious as not to have this House say in a light-hearted manner&mdash;simply because people say it will promote peace and unity&mdash;we should have no further court investigation of these cases which it is suggested should be reviewed by a Committee of the Dail. 
     Every one of these cases might form the subject of review, but it is suggested that we should have the scope of the review limited to those that are called political prisoners.  In so far as the Mountjoy prisoners are concerned, there might be four of them who could, if one got certain assurances, be regarded as definitely political cases, or having a political tinge, and for whom it might be worth while adopting the view contained in the resolution.  I find some difficulty in going into other cases opened up here, because I cannot find any evidence that the mover of the resolution, or the Party associated with him, has any clear idea concerning the particular people whose cases are wanted to be brought under the scope of review.  Deputy Ruttledge was on a deputation to the Minister for Justice some time ago on this question of political prisoners.  That has been referred to here.  There is no reason why it should not be referred to now.  The release of prisoners was spoken of, and   later we had this motion and certain cases were put up as typical.  Deputy Ruttledge was careful, when speaking of Stephen Murtagh, to say that that was his first case and that there were other cases he did not want to mention, leaving an unlimited field to the Committee to inquire into. 
     In addition, we got a much bigger list of people in the journal&mdash;I believe it is the official organ of Fianna Fail&mdash; who are considered to be political. Where are we in regard to these prisoners?  Is there to be no finality about men whose cases are to be brought for review?  Is the motion deliberately framed in such a wide way as to enable anyone who wishes to claim an inquiry to say that they are political cases, or whether there can be a decision as to whether there is a political tinge about their activities.  Deputy Ruttledge dragged in&mdash;I can get the quotation if necessary&mdash;the cases of prisoners in English jails, and probably also those in Northern Ireland, but at the deputation to the Minister for Justice no mention was made of prisoners other than those in jails in the Free State.  I think it is clearly recognised in this House that the Government did very definitely advert to the cases of men held in jails outside this country for what were clearly political offences, and they used considerable effort and achieved success in getting those described as political prisoners released at varying periods. Although the deputation to the Minister for Justice made no mention of prisoners outside this country we get the speech of the mover of the resolution referring in a vague way to political prisoners held in English and Scottish jails and probably also in Northern Ireland.  As I say, no indication was given then of that matter. 
     If we are to add the much wider list published elsewhere&mdash;the names are given&mdash;of people outside the country to those officially given by Fianna Fail at the deputation, it should be pointed out that no mention was made of any cases outside the Free State at that deputation.  On that point I would like to repeat that the Executive Council have long since disposed of all cases which seem to them to be political cases in which prisoners were   held outside the Free State: Deputy Ruttledge has referred in this, as in previous debates, to cases in which the prerogative of mercy was exercised, and for his purpose, as was naturally right considering his purpose, he segregated out certain officers and men of the National Forces and made the statement in his first speech at the first meeting in this Dail that so-and-so was convicted of something and was sentenced to a number of years' penal servitude, and was released on a certain date.  Some of these dates have since been corrected, and in one case Deputy MacEntee and Deputy Ruttledge admitted that it was not correct and it was withdrawn.  In some cases, however, incorrect statements were made about sentences and the dates of release. The Minister for Justice has gone into these cases and has shown, where mercy was exercised, that it was exercised in the ordinary way.  They are the cases of prisoners which came up for review by the Executive Council from time to time, and certain circumstances had to be taken into consideration and some of these men had mercy extended to them.  In the case of some of these men they were dealt with by a commission of judges appointed under the Amnesty Resolution passed by the Dail.  We have not heard of others who got the benefit of that resolution.  The speeches, as delivered, have always set out to make it appear to this House that mercy was extended only to people serving on one side and that the full penalty was insisted on in regard to anybody else.  There are cases which disprove that. 
     The case of James Lennon was already mentioned.  He was sentenced in July, 1924, for the robbery of a bank at Bagnalstown.  He was sentenced to five years' penal servitude, but was released in November, 1924, under the Amnesty Resolution, having served five months of his sentence.  Martin Kyne was convicted of robbing, under arms, £10,000 from the Tuam Branch of the Bank of Ireland.  On the 9th July, 1924, a sentence was imposed by the court of ten years' penal servitude.  He was released on the 26th November, 1924, after serving five months of his sentence.  A man called Fitzsimons, who raided premises in Mullingar, was   convicted on the 15th July, 1924, and was sentenced to twelve months' imprisonment. He was released in November, 1924, having served five months.  Patrick Cook burned property belonging to the Civic Guards at Granard, and on the 14th July, 1924, was sentenced to eighteen months imprisonment.  He was released in November, 1924, having served five months. 
     
      
       Stick it out.  You have an hour and a half to go. 
     
     
      
       These cases are relevant to the situation before us.  It is assumed that Deputy Ruttledge can give a list of persons in the National Forces towards whom the prerogative of mercy was extended, but it is a matter of laughter when the other side of the picture is shown and when you give proof that the benefit of the Amnesty Resolution was given in greater measure to people in arms against the State than to people in the service of the State. 
     
     A man named John J. Geraghty was convicted of the same crime as that of Patrick Cook, namely, burning property belonging to the Civic Guard. A similar sentence of eighteen months was imposed on him, and he was released on the same date as the other man, after serving five months.  The case of John Morrissey was a peculiar one.  Morrissey deprived a policeman of his bicycle by force in Stradbally, on the 31st March, 1923.  In October, 1924, he was sentenced to two years, with the statement that if an undertaking were given for future good behaviour he would be dealt with leniently.  He was released on the 26th November, 1924.  He had served one month and was released, although the guarantee asked for by the judge from him was not given.  Charles Flood was sentenced to five years in connection with a bank raid in Monaghan.  He was convicted in July, 1924, and he was released on the 5th February, 1925.  He had served somewhat longer than the rest.  He put in a period of eight months in jail. Thomas Traynor, who was convicted of the same offence, after serving eight months was released under the Amnesty Resolution.  In the cases of Keogh,   Flynn, and Thomas and Joseph Ryan, who were charged with robbery from a train and with conspiracy to rob by force in County Wexford, they were sentenced in January, 1923, to five years' penal servitude, and they were released in 1925.  They had served three years of the five to which they were sentenced. 
     Michael Lyons was convicted of receiving postal orders at Ballinamore and also of converting these to his own use.  I believe it was stated the raid was official, but afterwards he was found to be making use of the stolen property for his own benefit.  He was sentenced to four years' penal servitude. He was also released after he had served two years and two months. There was one case of a man tried by a military tribunal.  He was sentenced to 15 years in March, 1923, and was released in January, 1925, after serving less than two years.  In addition to that, by reason of the Amnesty Resolution, a nolle prosequi was entered in various cases of people who had been awaiting trial.  These men, who had been in arms against the State, were released without any charge being brought against them. 
     
      
       Read the Amnesty Act. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister making the mistake of thinking that this is a Select Committee and that he is making a case before a Select Committee? 
     
     
      
       He is killing time. 
     
     
      
       Deputies who put down the resolution pretend to be very honest in their attitude.  They pretend to have the case of the prisoners at heart, and want it discussed.  They did not care on the day when there was an hour left for debating this question, and that hour was not used.  On that day, although there was an hour to go. these gentlemen did not want to go on with the prisoners' case, the case of people who are languishing in jail. Deputy Kennedy apparently does not care what would happen to the prisoners. Deputy Kennedy did not care on that day.  There were no protests as to the loss of that hour, and Deputies at   this period should not be afraid to hear particular cases discussed, and should not be afraid to have information given to this Dail to guide it in voting on the motion to set up a committee to review some cases.  I am not reviewing these cases, but I am asking the Dail to consider how many of the Mountjoy prisoners and others can be considered political prisoners after the statements made.  I am now dealing with the case made by Deputy Ruttledge where he spoke of the prerogative of Parliamentary mercy being extended only to certain people, and I am showing that it was extended and that the Amnesty Resolution was extended to a considerable amount of people other than those of whom the House has already heard. At the date of the Amnesty Resolution there were twelve people all due for trial on offences that were charged against them.  All were released without being brought to trial, and there were two others elsewhere&mdash;fourteen in all&mdash;who were never even brought to trial.  That is the other side of the picture that Deputy Ruttledge painted.  That is the actual attitude of the State with regard to certain people who were found in arms against the State, and will Deputies who think that the passing of this resolution is going to bring about unity and harmony and concord realise that the benefit of the Amnesty Resolution was accorded to the men I have mentioned, and that nevertheless after that we had other offences committed for which the people we describe as the Mountjoy escaped people are either charged or awaiting trial. 
     
     Despite the fact that the Amnesty Resolution was passed, and passed with a view to bringing about harmony and more ordered conditions in the country, you still could have people kidnapped, you still could have armed rescues, and you still could have people ordered out of the country under threat of death, and that after the House had been lenient enough to pass an amnesty resolution and having all the cases I have spoken of given the benefit of that resolution.  At the beginning of this debate we had a considerable amount of talk as to what might come of the passing of this resolution, not so much as to what might come of the actual   review of the cases, but as to what might come of the good spirit that would have been displayed by the passing of it and by asking the House to set up this Committee simply as a gesture.  Deputy Morrissey is one, Deputy Anthony is another, and Deputy Little before that, asked that we should be magnanimous and do the big thing. There is a way of doing the big thing. The Minister for Finance talked about a changed spirit, or even a tendency towards a changed spirit, that would lead this House properly to pass this resolution, but we got very little response, very little evidence of the changed spirit in what ensued afterwards. We got a comparison made, and I do not allude to it simply for the sake of raking up old sores, but because I think that the particular date is an important one.  We had a statement made by Deputy Lemass that when the Public Safety Bill was going through the House a statement was made by President Cosgrave that at that particular time, towards the end of November, Deputy Lemass was Minister for Defence in the Republican Army and Deputy Aiken was Chief of Staff. Deputy Aiken, speaking of the Minister for Agriculture said that he was as dangerous a man as Carolan who was in jail, and Deputy Lemass wanted to know if people engaged in the escape from Mountjoy were in jail why he should not be there.  But if the Deputy had read what the President did say on the Public Safety Act he would have noticed a very definite statement, that we had information with regard to the Convention that was held on 14th November, 1925, that at that Convention Deputy Lemass, as Minister for Defence, and Deputy Aiken, as Chief of Staff, were replaced by others.  The escapes took place some fortnight or so afterwards, and the escapes were the result of that change, and the escapes were the work of the people who replaced Deputy Lemass and Deputy Aiken. 
     How many of the people who are now being looked for, and how many of the people who are described as the Mountjoy escaped men, are acting under the authority at the moment, or in association with Deputy Aiken and Deputy Lemass, or how many of them are acting   in association with the people who replaced them?  If we had even such a change of mind as is shown by the presence of Deputy Lemass and Deputy Aiken here, then we could take certain action.  Ex-prisoner McGuinness has repudiated what Deputy Lemass said on his behalf, and Deputies will have got recently a document which was, I think, circulated to every member of the House, stating that while certain people &ldquo;appreciated the humanity that prompts certain Deputies to ask for the release of our prisoners, we strongly resent the reasons advanced in advocating their release.  It is a direct misrepresentation of the position to insinuate that peace could be brought about on these lines.&rdquo;  Who is speaking for the escaped prisoners? Is it Deputy Lemass and Deputy Aiken?  Can they say that they are? Deputy Boland purports to speak on behalf of one of them.  Can Deputy Lemass, Deputy Aiken or Deputy Ruttledge say that they speak for any of the men who were in jail, who were rescued and who are now through the country?  Can they say that they are even adopting the line they adopted, even although we take the reservation that Deputy Lemass put on his present action and the situation as he finds it now when he said: 
     Five years ago the methods we adopted were not the methods we have adopted now.  Five years ago we were on the defensive, and perhaps in time we may recoup our strength sufficiently to go on the offensive. 
     Is Deputy Lemass engaged in an attempt to recruit his strength so that he can go on the offensive again?  This is a material point in the consideration that is before the Dail.  Can he honestly say that he has any control over the men who are being discussed, or is it that he thinks if we make a gesture they are a type likely to respond to it, or does he know, definitely and clearly, that these men will not respond to any gesture?  If we had a statement from a responsible Deputy that, speaking on behalf of certain men, he believes that a generous gesture in this House will meet with some appropriate reaction, then there is one   situation.  Referring to the point that three or four of the men who are in Mountjoy&mdash;Carolan, O'Byrne and two others who were arrested previous to 14th December, 1925&mdash;if we can take it on the authority of Deputy Lemass, or Deputy Aiken, that these people, being previously in association with him, have now an association with him, and are now of his mind with regard to methods to be adopted, and have abandoned the old-time methods, then undoubtedly these four could be segregated and some new attitude could be taken up with regard to them.  But we have not a response from anyone with regard to these men.  We have no statement that people on the other side can say definitely that they are authorised to speak for these men.  I am now alluding to the men who were in Mountjoy and who are not there now, men who can be approached, men that the Minister for Finance asked that Deputy Ruttledge or Deputy Lemass should approach and find out if they could come to the House with a statement as to any new attitude on the part of these men. 
     
      
       Is the Minister speaking for this House in keeping them in? 
     
     
      
       I did not catch what the Deputy said. 
     
     
      
       I want to know if the Minister is speaking for this House in keeping the prisoners in. 
     
     
      
       I am assuming in the ordinary way that this House, having passed certain laws, and having set up judges to administer these laws, stands by that until the laws are shown to be unjust or the judges are shown not to be fair.  Juries have, in certain cases, found certain people guilty, and in certain of the other cases the men are awaiting trial.  I assume that it is the wish of the House that, at any rate, the ordinary methods of justice should proceed.  The ordinary methods of justice would keep these men in or see that they were brought to trial. 
     
     
      
       Would you give the House an opportunity before Easter to decide it? 
     
     
     
      
       Surely. 
     
     
      
       But having heard one side, surely we ought to hear the other. 
     
     
      
       They are not used to that. 
     
     
      
       Deputies opposite have had an ample opportunity of making the cases themselves, and now that they are being answered they do not want to hear the answer.  I notice that when it gets uncomfortable there is an interjection. 
     
     
      
       You are making a great case for the inquiry. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is listening very carefully to what is being said. 
     
     
      
       There are a great many of us listening to you, but very few on your benches. 
     
     
      
       They know it is a sound case.  The Deputy was absent for a long time himself. 
     
     
      
       On the hills. 
     
     
      
       I do not know what Deputy Flinn's position in this matter is at all.  I do not know where he comes into the case.  There is a certain situation in which Deputy Aiken and Deputy Lemass possibly can answer for certain people.  Deputy Lemass's reservation gives one a little doubt as to just exactly what is his attitude; but taking his presence in the House as an indication of a certain thing, if he says that there are other people of his mind we can deal with them.  One does not know how Deputy Flinn comes into this.  There is a description&mdash;by James Stevens, I think&mdash;of certain people whom he observed in Paris and whom he described in this way&mdash;I think they were the vendors in the newspaper kiosks&mdash;that they looked very stalwart, very competent females, and seemed as if they had outgrown their sins but looked back on them with pleasure. That might be the attitude of Deputy Lemass in regard to the past.  The author went on to speak of men whose deeds had been of so tepid and so hygienic a character that they could not   even be mourned for without hypocrisy and deceit.  I think the latter might apply to Deputy Flinn. 
     
     
      
       What about Buffalo Bill? 
     
     
      
       Deputy Lemass said of the attitude taken up towards these prisoners that the Government &ldquo;have taken a narrow view and adopted the attitude that if they can justify their detention of the prisoners in jail and their chase of the men on the run in a manner sufficiently glib their duty is done.  Their attitude on the concrete facts of the prisoners is in direct variance with the words they used on other occasions when they asked us to forget the past and cooperate with them in building up the economic strength of the nation.&rdquo; 
       We have two Deputy Lemasses in this House.  They reveal themselves on occasion&mdash;the Deputy Lemass who is very much concerned with the economic building up of the nation and everything that is going to attain that, and the other Deputy Lemass who wonders if it was right to be on the defence and whether sufficient strength could not be got to take the offensive again regardless of the consequences to the economics of this country.  I do not know which we are dealing with.  We are going to assume that we are dealing with the Deputy Lemass who is concerned for the future of the country. We asked can Deputy Lemass, on behalf of the men being discussed, answer now in the affirmative any one of the phrases used by the Minister for Finance with regard to the general people and with regard to the attitude of these people.  The Minister for Defence asked if people were willing to accept the principle of majority rule. Deputy Boland admitted that he was and that we all do.  The Minister for Finance put another question: 
       &ldquo;Are Deputies asking for the setting aside of the law unless there is going to be condemnation of the idea of violence?  Can we get any response to that on behalf of the prisoners?&rdquo; 
     
     &ldquo;If Deputies on the other side do accept that, then I do not know on what grounds they are pleading for   the release of men who do not accept it, and who are engaged in the organisation of a machine which would apparently overrule, by force, majority rule here.  If any of the prisoners have actually changed their mind&mdash;we do not know that they have&mdash;we ought to hear of it.  It is a simple matter, one that can be discussed quite calmly.&rdquo; 
     Have we heard it?  Have we heard of any change of mind represented by any of the people spoken of here?  We have heard only one thing, the repudiation by McGuinness of what Deputy Lemass stated in the House. 
     &ldquo;Is it put up to us that the release of the prisoners is going to cause them and others to abandon any preparations that they may have been making for resorting to arms against the forces of the State organised here?&rdquo; 
     Can we get any assurance that any of the many phrases used by the Minister for Finance to give some idea that there was to be acceptance of the condition that when certain people get political power, when they would have the resources of the country in the shape of the Army behind them, they could use it for whatever purpose was acquiesced in by the people? 
     Can we get to the point that the prisoners will accept that situation?  We heard a lot further in connection with one word, humiliation.  We were told not to subject certain people to humiliation. There is one humiliation everyone in this House and in this country has to submit to, the humiliation that the Labour Party has accepted, that Deputy Anthony speaking on various occasions has accepted, and that is the humiliation of obeying the law.  That is the only humiliation that is sought to be imposed on any man who wants mercy extended to him, that he is going to sit down under the law, that he is going to obey the law as administered by the courts set up by the people.  That is the single humiliation one seeks to put on him. There was a very illuminating retort to a very definite question and to a very simple matter put by the Minister for Defence to the House relative to the murder of the late Vice-President and we had the attitude shown of two members   of the Fianna Fail Party with regard to it.  That attitude apparently was taken by the Party and certainly was not repudiated.  The attitude was that they might suffer odium if they attempted to assist the police to bring the murderers of the late Kevin O'Higgins to justice, and the statement of a certain other Deputy was that it would be informing to give evidence if evidence came into their possession that would lead to such arrests. 
     
      
       On a point of order, does the Minister consider that every interruption from the Cumann na nGaedheal benches indicates the policy of Cumann na nGaedheal or of the Government? 
     
     
      
       I would willingly accept that if I could get it as a repudiation or an explanation even.  The statements made by Deputy Little and by Deputy Cooney were disgraceful statements. 
     
     
      
       On a point of information I wonder would the Minister ask us to take his action at the shooting of Kevin O'Higgins as the deliberate policy of the Government when he ran away.  He could have found out something about who shot him.  He left the dying man&mdash;left him in the hands of a Republican&mdash;a member of Fianna Fail. 
     
     
      
       As to that statement with regard to me personally, on the morning that the late Kevin O'Higgins died I am willing to stand anywhere with regard to any action I took that day.  It is obviously a thing not to discuss here.  I gather now that an attempt has been made to get away from the two direct statements made in answer to direct questions asked by the Minister for Finance by making some peculiar and vague accusation, against me. 
     
     
      
       It is not all vague.  It is quite definite. 
     
     
      
       If there is any accusation against me let it be made in a proper way and on a proper occasion. 
     
     
      
       It has been made. 
     
     
     
      
       It has not been made by anyone who knows the circumstances. 
     
     
      
       I know the circumstances and can give them. 
     
     
      
       No. 
     
     
      
       This is a matter that affects the honour of a Minister, and in view of the fact that if it is not settled here now opinions will commence to form outside that there is something in the story, I submit, with great respect, sir, that you might allow the Deputy to proceed. 
     
     
      
       The Minister asks that certain remarks affecting him in his personal honour should be definitely substantiated here and now, and I agree. 
     
     
      
       Either substantiated or withdrawn.  I am agreeable to either. 
     
     
      
       I stand over what I said. 
     
     
      
       What did you say? 
     
     
      
       I said this much: that at the moment Kevin O'Higgins was shot, or a few minutes afterwards, the Minister came along in a motor car. He was asked by a man there to pull up, that Kevin O'Higgins had been shot, and to go for the priest.  The man ran after the car and asked him again, but the Minister would not do so. 
     
     
      
       Is that what Deputy O'Kelly has to say? 
     
     
      
       It is substantially the same. 
     
     
      
       I came on the scene about four minutes after the murder was effected.  I do not know why I should be asked to go for a priest when there was a priest on the scene. No question was put to me about going for a priest.  I went to see the Minister for Justice and I spoke to him.  I said certain things to him, but he did not answer me.  I stood about for some time and was pulled away by people who asked me to go and bring to the   spot the mother of Mrs. O'Higgins.  I went for her.  There was no question put to me about going for a priest. There was a priest on the spot at the time of my arrival. 
     
     
      
       You arrived a second time then. 
     
     
      
       I made one arrival on the scene.  I was there within four minutes of the shooting. There was a priest on the spot.  No request was made to me; I want to be as categorical as possible, that no request was ever made to me by anyone to go for a priest.  Consequently I did not refuse such a request.  I did go to see the Minister.  I was afterwards asked if I would go and get his wife's mother.  I did so.  That is the statement. This has been introduced as a cloak, a red herring across the track of a particular question put to people on that side, a question that two Deputies answered in a particular way.  I would be very glad to have Deputy Fahy's repudiation on behalf of his Party of the attitude that those two members have adopted.  We did not get that repudiation, but simply got an expression of opinion from Deputy Fahy that all opinions are to be taken as statements of policy.  To that very limited extent it is an advantage. 
     
     
      
       I cannot speak for a Party.  I am not the leader of the Party, and I do not think that any Deputy speaking on his own&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Have you a leader? 
     
     
      
       Any Deputy speaking on his own cannot bind his Party. 
     
     
      
       Have you a leader? 
     
     
      
       He is ill. 
     
     
      
       Have you a leader in the House? 
     
     
      
       The leader of this Party definitely and publicly condemned the murder of Kevin O'Higgins. I would like to point out that the murder was also repudiated by the organisation on whose shoulders the Government is trying to put the blame.  I would   like to say, speaking for myself at any rate, that I would be very glad to see every fact concerned brought out, and would facilitate every effort in that direction.  I want an assurance from the Minister and the Government that if the facts should implicate certain persons associated with their Party that the evidence will be acted upon. 
     
     
      
       Definitely and clearly and without the slightest doubt. But there has been no reply to the question I put&mdash;that clearly it is not a question of repudiation of murder.  It is hardly necessary to take credit for anybody that that murder should have been repudiated.  There is a step further than repudiation&mdash;the step that it is every man's and every citizen's duty to take.  If a man came into possession of information likely to lead to the apprehension of the murderers, would he give it?  Deputy Little said there would be the odium of being associated with it. 
     
     
      
       I said it was a matter for the individual conscience, and so it is. 
     
     
      
       And Deputy Little gave no indication as to what his individual conscience would lead him to do. 
     
     
      
       I am not here to make confessions to you. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Little made reference to odium attaching to giving information to the police in this matter, and Deputy Cooney clearly stated, if there is any meaning to his words, that he would not give information&mdash;that if he did so he would be an informer, and he would not be an informer. 
     
     
      
       resumed the Chair. 
     
     
      
       Would the President give us some information about the murder of the man who was taken by his Guard on Holy Thursday, 1923? 
     
     
      
       Is the Deputy going to withdraw the allegation he made? 
     
     
      
       That point, I think, ought to be settled.  Is the Deputy   going to withdraw the allegation made here about the conduct of a Minister? It is disgusting to every decent person in the Dail that such an allegation should be made.  It is the lowest depth to which the Dail has sunk, that such a statement and such an allegation in a matter of this kind should be made here.  I do think that before this debate is allowed to proceed that allegation should be withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       There has been a mean, low type of propaganda against Fianna Fail for certain actions.  In our reply, we do not want to be catechised about our attitude towards law and order by men who, in the past, obeyed British law and order, but who will not obey, and who did not obey, the law and order of the Irish people. 
     
     
      
       It is a perfectly well-understood Parliamentary practice that when an allegation is made against a member of a Party, this Party or any other Party, and the member there and then rises in his place and repudiates the allegation and says it is without foundation&mdash;that is the invariable practice&mdash;the allegation is then immediately withdrawn by the person making it. 
     
     
      
       And not added to by further allegations. 
     
     
      
       I was not here and did not hear what the personal allegation was.  It is quite clear that a personal allegation is quite a different matter from a statement about a Party. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy made a statement that the Minister for Industry and Commerce was present on the morning of the assassination of the late Minister for Justice and that he refused certain assistance which might reasonably be expected from an ordinary citizen, that he ran away and would not go for the priest, and so on. The Minister explained, very fully and very clearly, what he did on that morning, and I think his explanation might reasonably have been accepted.  It was not accepted, and the discussion went on.  Then an allegation was made by, I think, Deputy Aiken, regarding some   matter which occurred during the Civil War.  He asked me a question about it.  I did not catch clearly what he said.  I was about to ask him what it was he meant when somebody else intervened.  That is the situation as I understand it. 
     
     
      
       On the question of personal allegation, what is Deputy Aiken's point of view about it? 
     
     
      
       I said what I believed to be true, that the Minister was in a position on that morning to get some information which he is trying now&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       That is not what you said. 
     
     
      
       Let me hear Deputy Aiken. 
     
     
      
       I said that the Minister had been here asking us in a rhetorical sort of way, for the purpose of a mean, cunning sort of propaganda, to give information about the death of Kevin O'Higgins.  It is despicable the way that certain Ministers have been going on here for the last six months.  We object to it strongly.  I, at any rate, object to it strongly, and I object to it very strongly coming from a man who was in a position, when Kevin O'Higgins was shot, or shortly afterwards, to get some information, and instead of trying to get it ran away. 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy say what was the information I could have got? 
     
     
      
       You could at least have done what a Republican, a member of Fianna Fail, did, you could have got as quickly as you could to the dying man and could have helped him. 
     
     
      
       The previous statement was that I was asked to go for a priest and refused, and that I ran away.  We are getting away from that now. 
     
     
      
       That is true, you drove away. 
     
     
      
       I say it is a disgrace to the Dail that the statement made by the Minister should not be accepted.  It is a disgrace to the Dail that he should be asked to make explanations   on matters like this before the Dail.  It is a disgrace to the Dail that he should be asked to make such a statement. 
     
     
      
       I have every sympathy with Deputy Tierney for having sympathy for the Minister&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       For anybody. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;&mdash;for the Minister who ran away. 
     
     
      
       It was at my request that the Acting-Chairman very kindly allowed this matter to be explained. The personal honour, not only of a member, but of a Minister, was affected.  I believe that the Minister was in a position to answer.  When once made we ought to have either proof of the statement or its withdrawal. 
     
     
      
       For the sake of the honour of the House, I would ask Deputy Aiken to withdraw the charge. 
     
     
      
       And Deputy O'Kelly. 
     
     
      
       The Minister has denied absolutely in this House that he was guilty of the charge which Deputy Aiken has levelled against him.  As Deputy Law has pointed out, it has been the practice in this House, if a charge be made against a member and if that member denies it, to have the charge immediately withdrawn.  Now this is a very serious charge, a charge reflecting on the honour and manhood of the Minister.  Giving it as my own personal opinion, I say that after the Minister's statement the charge should be withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       I think a most despicable thing has been done here.  Charges have been made, not in a straight way that could be answered, but in a low, cunning sort of way that cannot be answered.  Not alone have they been made here but throughout the country by Ministers&mdash;and not by mere supporters of the Ministers.  Ministers have made them in this House and on public platforms.  I think that they should be withdrawn.  If Ministers have any respect for the honour of this House and if they have any charges to make, then they ought to make them in a   clear, straightforward manner that can be met.  But cunning charges have been made by Ministers that cannot be met. 
     
     
      
       There are two completely different types of statements.  One is a general statement made in the course of the debate.  As I have pointed out before, a great many things could be said in the course of debate within the limits of Parliamentary language and usage as long as these things are confined to Parties and politics.  A personal imputation against a Deputy is different, and it is quite clear in this case, if I accept Deputy Aiken's own re-statement when dealing with the matter, about which the Minister for Industry and Commerce must naturally feel very strongly, that he does make a personal accusation against the Minister that assistance which he could have given he did not give, and that he ran away from the place where the Minister for Justice was murdered. 
       The Minister having refuted that statement I think Deputy Aiken might withdraw the personal imputation against the Minister without any prejudice as to what Deputy Aiken has to say, or anybody else has to say, on the general question of Parties or their attitude towards particular events.  The Deputy will realise it would be impossible to conduct the business of the House without this particular rule being observed.  I think that the imputation in which the personality of the Minister is involved should be withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       All I say is that this is a serious case.  The Minister has made serious allegations against the Fianna Fail Party in a way which cannot be met.  I made a serious allegation against the Minister.  I believe what I said to be substantially correct, and I cannot see my way to withdraw, especially when we have no assurance from the Ministers that they are not going to withdraw their more cunning charges. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Thrift was in the Chair when this matter arose. 
     
     
      
       The matter arose when the Minister proceeded to   deal with remarks that had been made in reply to a request&mdash;I think it was from the Minister for Defence&mdash;that a certain attitude should be indicated by Fianna Fail with reference to any information which might conceivably come into their possession with reference to the assassination of the late Vice-President.  The Minister was referring to these remarks, and was quite in order, in my opinion, when Deputy Aiken interjected a remark with reference to the Minister's personal conduct on the morning when that event took place.  There were two or three cross remarks, which I do not exactly remember at the moment, but I intervened to say that this was drawing the debate entirely aside from the matter at issue.  The President appealed to me that, inasmuch as an attack had been made on the personal honour of the Minister, I should not press that. I replied that if the Minister wished to get a clear statement of the allegation made against his honour, so that he would be in a position to reply to it, I would certainly yield.  The Minister expressed that wish.  Thereupon Deputy Aiken, as far as my memory goes, said that the gist of his charge, and in this he was supported by Deputy O'Kelly, was that the Minister was appealed to to go for a priest on that morning and that he refused.  The Minister replied that he arrived and was speaking to the late Vice-President, that a priest was on the spot at the time, that he was not asked to go for a priest and, therefore, could not have refused to do so, but that later he was asked to go for Mrs. O'Higgins' mother, and he went.  That explanation seemed to me, in the Chair, as a perfectly satisfactory one, and when you, sir, returned, I was about to make a personal appeal from the Chair to Deputy Aiken that he would accept that statement as a genuine statement of the Minister of what occurred on his part that morning.  Then Deputy Law suggested that for the credit of this House, and for our future harmonious proceedings, the only right and proper course for Deputy Aiken to adopt was to accept the Minister's definite statement as to the action which he took on that morning. 
     
     
     
      
       I would like to say, so far as I am concerned, that while it has been definitely stated to me that the Minister was asked to stop by somebody personally known to him, that he drove past, that he was asked to halt near where the incident occurred, and that he refused; if the Minister says he did stop, or if he says he was not aware he was being asked to stop, I will accept his words.  If he says he was not asked to stop I accept his words.  If he says he did stop of course I accept his words.  But I know the statement was definitely made to me, by a person on whose word I would rely, that the Minister drove past a few minutes after the shooting of the late Minister for Justice.  This individual&mdash;I have no authority to use his name&mdash;said he asked the Minister to halt as he drove past, and that the Minister drove on&mdash;drove, I think, to the house of the late Minister for Justice. If the Minister says he was not asked to halt, or did not see that he was being asked to halt, I accept his word. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Thrift has put the position better than it could be put by anybody else.  The position is that when a personal imputation is made against a Deputy in the House the House must accept that Deputy's disclaimer on the spot, without any reference to any other matter.  I think that is Deputy O'Kelly's point, now that the Minister's disclaimer has to be accepted.  I do not feel that we ought to go into any inquiry as to what happened.  At the moment we have an accusation against a Deputy, and if the Deputy states that the facts are otherwise the House ought to accept that, and the personal imputation should be withdrawn. 
     
     
      
       Deputy O'Kelly has not stated now what he stated before. 
     
     
      
       I did not state anything. 
     
     
      
       I asked the Deputy if he had anything to add.  He said he was in substantial agreement with what Deputy Aiken said.  That had reference to my refusal to get a priest, of running away, and of not getting   certain information which I could have got.  He associated himself previously with the other matter. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister's statement accepted by Deputy Aiken? 
     
     
      
       I think I might say, first of all, that it is positively insulting to myself to have to intervene in a matter of this sort.  That is the way I feel.  I do not feel called upon to answer charges in connection with that event by anyone.  I do not want to be called on to answer them. I would not make so little of my old associations, but, in deference to this House and the members of this House, and not to answer any charges made from across the way, let me say this, that I was on the scene one minute after the event.  Mr. McGilligan drove up in a motor car after I came on the scene, a minute and a half after the event.  The priest was there.  Mr. McGilligan drove up in his motor car and was called upon by somebody to stop, and he did so.  He remained there the whole time until he was asked by another person to go for a certain lady. I only want to say that I do not think the Minister for Industry and Commerce ought to ask these people to withdraw these charges.  What difference does it make&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       That is another question. 
     
     
      
       It is the sort of foul slander I would expect. 
     
     
      
       We have a definite statement from a Deputy whose honour has been impugned.  Does Deputy Aiken accept that and withdraw? 
     
     
      
       The Minister has not said anything regarding what Deputy O'Kelly said. 
     
     
      
       On the point that Deputy Aiken himself makes &mdash;leaving out Deputy O'Kelly&mdash;is Deputy Aiken satisfied? 
     
     
      
       I am not satisfied. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Aiken does not accept the word of   another Deputy in the House.  In the particular set of circumstances, I think he ought to withdraw or accept it. (Deputies: &ldquo;Hear, hear.&rdquo;) I call upon Deputy Aiken to withdraw. 
     
     
      
       He has not the courage. 
     
     
      
       On a point of order&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The matter has gone beyond a point of order, and I must settle the matter myself. 
     
     
      
       I resent strongly the imputations made by the Minister for Industry and Commerce against the members of the Fianna Fail Party, in a way which it is very difficult for the members of the Fianna Fail Party to reply.  I heard, on what I considered to be good authority, that the Minister was in a position, on the morning of the shooting of Kevin O'Higgins, to get information which he asks us for, and that he did not take advantage of the position he was in to seek for that information then, and not only that, but that when called upon to go for the priest, he did not go, but drove past in his motor car.  I believe these statements to be the truth.  I also believe it to be absolutely despicable and mean and low and cunning for the Minister to continue the propaganda. 
     
     
      
       Keep to the personal explanation.  That is a different question.  The Deputy, therefore, is not withdrawing? 
     
     
      
       I have nothing more to say. 
     
     
      
       As the Deputy disobeys the ruling of the Chair that he should withdraw the statement, I shall have to ask him to withdraw from the House. 
     
     
      
       then withdrew from the House. 
     
     
      
       Does Deputy O'Kelly associate himself with the same remarks? 
     
     
      
       I will stand on my own feet here.  I made a definite statement, and I will repeat what I said a moment ago, that the Minister for Industry   and Commerce, when he drove past in a motor car, was asked by somebody, who recognised him, and whom he knows, to halt, and that he did not halt. 
     
     
      
       And went on to the Minister's house? 
     
     
      
       Yes, I believe to the Minister's house.  If the Minister says that is not so, I entirely accept his word. 
     
     
      
       I do not know if Deputies know the scene of the tragedy.  I came down from a road which leads to the Stillorgan Road to where the event occurred.  I came round that corner, and a man held up his hand to me.  I was in a closed car.  I put on the brakes, stopped the car within the length of this House, and got out, leaving the engine running.  It was said that I was asked to go for a priest and that I did not go&mdash;that I went to the Minister's house.  I was not one-tenth of the way to the Minister's house. 
     
     
      
       I accept the Minister's statement.  He says he stopped when he was asked.  I accept that. 
     
     
      
       He is not associating himself, as he previously did, with the remarks made by Deputy Aiken? 
     
     
      
       I am not subject to cross-examination by anybody.  I made a definite statement and I stand over it. If the Minister says that that statement is not correct, I accept his word. 
     
     
      
       And withdraw the statement? 
     
     
      
       I accept his word. 
     
     
      
       Does the Deputy withdraw the statement? 
     
     
      
       I accept in the fullest sense the Minister's word. 
     
     
      
       I think Deputy O'Kelly should withdraw the statement. 
     
     
      
       I certainly withdraw if the Minister says that what I said is not correct. 
     
     
     
      
       He has said it. 
     
     
      
       I do not intend to speak any further. 
     
     
      
       Then Deputy Ruttledge will conclude the debate. 
     
     
      
       I do not intend at this stage to keep this debate going long.  It has gone on for a considerable time.  A good many statements have been made, many of them perhaps germane to the debate, others of them having nothing whatever to do with it. A number of matters have been introduced that I think were unnecessary, and the debate would have been conducted, perhaps, in an atmosphere of less heat, and with more useful results, if a number of the things introduced were avoided.  The usual controversial matters have been brought into this debate that always create heat and an atmosphere in which, perhaps, angry passions get the better of reasoned judgment, where we find ourselves in a position more concerned with petty trifles and party points than with approaching this matter in the reasoned way which some of us, at any rate, try to approach it, to secure some sort of better and more peaceful conditions.  I am not going to go in detail into some of the speeches made, the vituperative outburst of the Minister for Defence, the petty snarls of the Minister for Lands and Agriculture, or, indeed, the matters introduced by the Minister for Industry and Commerce.  I thought that we had got away from that time of crude expressions, and rather cruder despotism, where the standard apparently was set on the expression side of it at any rate, about &ldquo;toe-rags,&rdquo;&ldquo;giving it to people in the neck,&rdquo;&ldquo;so many years of iron rule,&rdquo; and &ldquo;let them rot in prison.&rdquo;  These were the expressions freely bandied about the country at that time with regard to the men in prison.  There does not appear to have been any departure from that attitude.  There does not seem to be any improvement in the expressions in regard to the prisoners from the Benches opposite.  They seem still to hang on or cling to those dark, smoking lanterns, to grope their way in some   peculiar way to what they call settled conditions.  These are not, I submit, the ways in which this country can get to those conditions.  It is not by an attitude such as that&mdash;although it may convince the people opposite&mdash;that you can show the country you are a strong Government.  That is not the way to show you are an effective Government. It is not, I submit, the attitude of a strong Government.  These are the methods of a weak, despotic and unjust Government.  They are the methods that have been adopted by all despotic Governments. 
     
     There has been a good deal dragged in here&mdash;particularly by the Minister for Lands and Agriculture&mdash;about democratic laws, the will of the people and so on.  Now we know there was a time when an agreement was made that certain issues should be put to election and that same agreement provided that certain other issues should not be put to election.  We know that after that election issues that were deliberately precluded from being put were construed by people opposite as things upon which they got the votes of the people.  We were told about the will of the people and democratic laws and that this Dail can do what it likes.  But a few months after the period to which I have alluded they came to the House with the Constitution and put certain clauses of the Constitution through without the Dail having any right to interfere with one iota.  When they talked about the will of the people we know how they acted with regard to the will of the people. It is not long ago since those on the opposite benches deliberately endeavoured to take away from the people the power of veto or initiative in legislation. We know they tried to take away from the people the power of the referendum&mdash;a power which should be inherent in any free people capable of exercising their rights.  Deputies opposite think that they know more about the people's business than the people themselves and they set themselves in the position of dictators to do away with the referendum.  We know that two or three people on the opposite benches when they were not in a definite majority in this House, went and proclaimed a general election.  Are these tactics that would be adopted by any   Government that by the furthest stretch of imagination could claim it is acting on the will of the people or had any regard for it?  We know they are not. 
     I do not want, at this stage, after so much debate to refer to the question of the shooting of the late Minister for Justice.  That has been responsible for a certain amount of heat and I do not think any good purpose would be served by going into it now.  But people opposite are perhaps a bit too anxious to refer to this side of the House as being responsible for that event. 
     
      
       On a point of personal explanation, I did not say that.  I merely asked that in the event of any information likely to assist in the capture of the murderers, that might come into the hands of the Party opposite, we might have the assurance that that would be handed over to the police. 
     
     
      
       I was not referring particularly to the Minister for Defence.  I was referring just generally to statements made in conjunction with previous statements that have been made.  And if I put, side by side, the statement of the Minister for Defence, innocent as it looks, the statement by the Minister for Industry and Commerce, and go back a little further and place beside them the statement of the Minister for Local Government that we were the party of assassination&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       That statement was not made in the House. 
     
     
      
       Yes, outside the House, but putting these statements together, and taking the statements made at the general election, it is easy to see the cunning type of propaganda intended to try and blacken for mean Party advantage, and only for Party advantage, and to try and spread and disseminate an atmosphere that certain people belonging to our organisation are responsible for that occurrence. It has been stated that there was a definite, clear and unambiguous condemnation of that act by the leader of this Party.  When we referred to acts like that we may remember that revolting acts have happened in this country in connection with which there   has been no clear, unambiguous condemnation from the opposite Benches and no clear condemnation from public platforms.  There was no clear condemnation of the shooting of Bonfield; there was no clear condemnation of the shooting of Bergin; and there was no clear condemnation of the murder of Noel Lemass.  If you take all these particular events, there was no question about getting information about them.  They know where the information is.  With regard, at least, to one of the murders, the people on the Benches opposite have no difficulty in tracing those concerned.  There is no question about that.  Now, these things, one would imagine from what we have heard this last few weeks, could not be intended to serve any useful object in this House.  Were they introduced in view of what the President said: &ldquo;Away with bitterness,&rdquo; and so on, for the purpose of creating or doing any good with regard to the country or creating a better atmosphere? We cannot see what useful purpose they serve, except that the people opposite, some of them at any rate, want to show reasons why the vendetta started years back should be continued.  They referred to all these particular incidents with a view to trying to urge, as far as they can, public opinion in a certain direction, to incense public opinion by making charges that they have no evidence to support, and by innuendo, that most contemptible practice of propaganda, to endeavour to leave the suggestion from which the inference can be drawn that certain parties have been responsible for this act and that act.  They hope, and that is the object of their attack here, to create in the country a feeling that will justify them in continuing the vendetta they resorted to for keeping these men in jail. 
     
     There was a long speech made here by the Minister for Justice about the various people in prison.  Statements were made such as: &ldquo;Do you stand over this particular case and that particular case?&rdquo; The resolution is sufficiently wide and clear to leave no doubt upon anybody's mind as to the answer to that question.  The resolution asks that a committee be set up to   inquire into the case of the political prisoners, and also into the case of persons who, although their acts may not be considered to be political, had sentences imposed on them for acts that arose, to some extent, from political activity.  At the opening I gave a number of examples&mdash;they were only examples. We are asked: &ldquo;Have you any authority to speak for them?&rdquo; That seems to be the great and wonderful point raised by people opposite. Does that mean that no member of this Dail&mdash;and that is what it comes to, that is, the appreciation of the Benches opposite&mdash;that no member of this Dail, seeing a wrong done, unless he gets definite authority and written authority from the people suffering that wrong, has any right to raise the matter, or refer to it, or deal with it? That is the great point made by the Benches opposite: &ldquo;Have you authority from those people to speak for them?&rdquo; In other words, the appreciation of the Government is that no matter what wrongs are done in the country, no matter what despotism is practised, no matter what sufferings are inflicted on the people, nobody has a right to mention them&mdash;how dare they?&mdash;unless they have authority from those who are suffering.  Deputies are not to speak here on this except they have authority and except they have got perhaps a written statement from the people who are suffering. That is the case.  That is, of course, reasonable from people who have practised government as the people on the opposite Benches have practised it.  I do not think it is a fair vote in so far as they are concerned.  But I do think with regard to the Independent Benches in this House, and with regard to many of the back Benchers&mdash;the men who are not on the Front Bench of the Government Party opposite&mdash;that with regard to them, no matter how they have been trained, that they will not accept willingly and lightly such an interpretation as that.  That is in keeping with some of the arguments that it would be only a waste of time here to get up and answer.  That was one of the arguments that were made here.  It would be an absolute waste of time to go into arguments or to thresh out arguments like that. 
     
        There has been a good deal of talk&mdash; it was mentioned by the Minister for Agriculture&mdash;about the £150,000 taken from the banks.  The Minister for Local Government is not here.  If he were I would point out that he ordered people to incur certain debts previous to that time and they took the money from the banks to pay the debts he had dishonoured or had refused to honour. There is an answer to all these charges. It is very easy to bandy lightly across the House charges such as have been made on the opposite benches.  There is an answer to these charges.  It is no use in asking the question: &ldquo;Do you stand for this and that, do you stand for so and so?&rdquo; The Minister for Industry and Commerce tried to point out how certain people on our side were amnestied. I would like to call the attention of the House to the fact that the cases I quoted with regard to the amnesty dealt with ex-members of the National Army.  They were amnestied for very different offences to the offences which the Minister for Industry and Commerce himself referred to as the offences of the people belonging to the organisation of the I.R.A.  I have heard the Minister for Industry and Commerce quote five or six cases of men charged with robbery or something like that.  The cases on the National Army side that I refer to as being cases of amnesty were definite cases of murder, and where people had even murdered for hire.  I have given particular cases. Does the Minister for Industry and Commerce think that that is a fair comparison? If he can only point out people on our side, let us say, who were sentenced because they took part in some raids, raids, I think, on houses or something like that, does he, in the same logical way as he has made the argument I refer to, treat these cases as of the same type as the cases of the men I referred to who are men charged with murder?  There was an amnesty, and even looking through that Amnesty Act it is quite easy to see that the object of that amnesty was to cover up the tracks and the dark deeds of the followers of the people opposite.  You may have amnestied; it may look all right as an Act, but it may be an entirely different thing in the practice. It is of the practice and of the spirit   that are behind that amnesty that we complain. 
     It was an amnesty used to the fullest extent for the followers of the Party opposite, to cover up all the foul and the dark deeds that were done, and that amnesty was applied, to a very limited extent, to the followers of our people. The position we find ourselves in now is that numbers of people are in prison, and it is admitted that at any rate some of those people are political. That is admitted by the Minister for Industry and Commerce himself. According to him, there were four cases in Mountjoy.  It is for the Committee set up to try to find out how many there are. 
     Is it a Committee that may be able to obtain any Party advantage?  Is it a Committee of which it can be said that it will not be fair?  The Committee that is asked to be set up in this motion is a Committee that will be nominated by the Select Committee of the House. It cannot be said that Fianna Fail is going to get a majority on it.  It is obvious that that Committee will be composed of men from the opposite side.  They are afraid of it.  They do not like it.  If the word &ldquo;independent&rdquo; is not a misnomer, might I appeal to the Independent Deputies if there is any such thing as independence there? If there is any such thing in existence as the Farmers' Party, if that indication of appreciation has not finished it altogether, if there is any independence left I will appeal to those Deputies to consider the position.  Why are the Government afraid to set up a Committee which will comprise members on which they would have a majority?  It is a reasonable proposal.  I submit it can do no harm, and it is one that may result in a good deal of good.  So much time has been wasted by the Minister for Industry and Commerce in talking so long the last day on this motion that I do not want to occupy the House any longer.  But I do urge that it is a reasonable proposition and it is one that, unless the people opposite are afraid of, or that they want to keep something dark, they should have no hesitation in agreeing to. 
     
      
       There were two points in connection with Deputy Ruttledge's   speech I would like to refer to. One was that the Dail that assembled in September, 1922, was a Dail without power.  That statement is not correct; it is not true.  The Dail, the Deputy said, which assembled here in 1922 was without power to make a Constitution that it would wish.  The Deputy will find on page 481 of the Dail Debates, 20th September, 1922, the statement from the Ministry in connection with the Constitution.  That statement was that they did not advise the Dail to disagree with certain clauses; that if the Dail did disagree with them, then the Ministers would not accept responsibility or office&mdash;could not accept responsibility or office.  But the Dail was not limited in its power, which was what the Deputy said.  The second point came when the Deputy mentioned three cases, the cases of Bonfield, Lemass and Burke.  One of those cases was in the civil conflict.  It was during the time of the civil conflict, and I believe the case was the subject of inquest proceedings. The second case, that of Noel Lemass, was a case which was brought before the House here.  The Deputy said in connection with these three cases that no repudiation had been made.  Well, I have a distinct recollection&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Ceann Comhairle definitely stated that Deputy Ruttledge was rising to reply.  Are we to understand there is now an opportunity to be given for further speeches in connection with this motion? 
     
     
      
       No; it is just a correction. 
     
     
      
       I understood I was concluding. 
     
     
     
      
       There were two points raised.  One was that the Dail of 1922 was told it had no power, which is a question relating to the powers of the House, which may be cleared up by the Leader of the House. The other is the statement in connection with which, presumably, the President is making a personal explanation, and he has information about certain things. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Ruttledge stated distinctly that there were three cases in which there was no repudiation. I object to that statement.  When there is a case made and there is a clear answer for it Deputies will not listen to the answer.  On a previous occasion the Deputy charged me with having had a prisoner released who was sentenced to two years. 
     
     
      
       The President is straying from his first point. 
     
     
      
       I explained that matter to the Deputy.  I will give the Deputy information which is not altogether unknown to members of his Party, because it was quoted in court. The Deputy will find in Column 1,547, Volume 4 (3rd July, 1923, to 9th August, 1923) a complete answer regarding the statement that there was no condemnation of the murder of Mr. Noel Lemass.  At the very end of it he will see: &ldquo;I hope every citizen will lend his or her aid towards making life possible, peaceful and normal.&rdquo; That was quoted in the courts.  As regards the third case made by the Deputy, there was a man apprehended for it and sentenced. 
       Question put.  The Dail divided: Ta, 63; Nil, 69. 
       Ta 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Denis Allen. Richard Anthony. Neal Blaney. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Daniel Bourke. Sean Brady. Robert Briscoe. Henry Broderick. Daniel Buckley. Archie J. Cassidy. Patrick Clancy. Michael Clery.
 Hugo Flinn. Andrew Fogarty. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. Sean Hayes. Patrick Hogan (Clare). Samuel Holt. Patrick Houlihan. Stephen Jordan. Michael Joseph Kennedy. William R. Kent. James Joseph Killane. Mark Killilea. Michael Kilroy. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Ben Maguire. Thomas McEllistrim. Sean MacEntee. 
             James Colbert. Hugh Colohan. Eamon Cooney. Dan Corkery. Richard Corish. Martin John Corry. Fred.  Hugh Crowley. Tadhg Crowley. William Davin. Thomas Derrig. Edward Doyle. James Everett. Frank Fahy.
 Seamus Moore. Daniel Morrissey. Thomas Mullins. Timothy Joseph Murphy. Thomas J. O'Connell. Patrick Joseph O'Dowd. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Martin Sexton. Timothy Sheehy (Tipperary). Patrick Smith. John Tubridy. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Ernest Henry Alton. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Sean Brodrick. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. John James Cole. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Martin Conlon. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. William T. Cosgrave. James Crowley. John Daly. Michael Davis. Peter de Loughrey. James N. Dolan. Peadar Sean Doyle. Edmund John Duggan. James Dwyer. Barry M. Egan. Osmond Thos. Grattan Esmonde. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. John Good. Denis J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. John J. Hassett. Michael R. Heffernan. Michael Joseph Hennessy. Thomas Hennessy. John Hennigan. 
             Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Patrick Leonard. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. Bartholomew O'Connor. Timothy Joseph O'Donovan. Daniel O'Leary. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. John J. O'Reilly. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Patrick Reynolds. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers:&mdash;Ta: Deputies G. Boland and Allen.  Nil: Deputies Duggan and P. Doyle. 
     Motion declared lost. 
     
      
       The other way next time. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE DEPUTIES' BUSINESS. - INCREASE OF RENT AND MORTGAGE INTEREST (RESTRICTIONS) BILL, 1928&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       The time is very short, and as this is a short Bill, the purpose of it is clear and very definite. It will not take much time to explain or recommend it to the House, and as I am very anxious that we should have a statement from the Government as to its policy on this matter of rent control before the House adjourns for the Easter Recess, I do not intend to be more than a minute or two. 
     
     
      
       You can take the full ten minutes. 
     
     
     
      
       We will give the President a chance of talking now. 
     
     
      
       There are others of us who also want to speak on this Bill. 
     
     
      
       In any case I am throwing out a challenge to the Government to state here and now, before the adjournment, what their policy is to be regarding rent control. It will ease the minds of four or five thousand people who are looking forward with anxiety to the 24th June next, when the houses which they occupy will come out of control.  They are likely to be evicted or have their rents raised very considerably unless something is done in the matter to extend the present control.  This Bill would not be introduced except for an answer given a week or two ago by the Minister for Justice, whose Department is chiefly concerned with this matter.  He was asked by Deputy Morrissey a supplementary question on the 15th March as to whether he would consider the amendment of the present Rent Restrictions Act.  The Minister's answer was: &ldquo;The Rent Restrictions Act is a comparatively recent Act, as the Deputy is aware.&rdquo;  That was the only answer that was made.  In answer to Deputy Byrne, he said that he did not propose to consider to what extent the relationship between landlord and tenant should be interfered with by further legislation except in so far as such relationship comes under review by the Town Tenants Commission. 
     
     We take it that the case will be made that there is a Commission sitting, and that we must wait for its report.  That Commission has been sitting since January last year and there is no indication that we will have its report by the 24th June.  There is no guarantee that the Town Tenants Commission will report anything about the matter of rent control or deal with it at all.  If one can judge by the evidence tendered to that Commission it dealt with matters other than those of rent control.  It dealt with the matter of security of tenure and with the machinery for fixing fair rent and matters of that kind.  Judging by the terms of reference, there is nothing   binding the Commission to report as to rent control.  There is not a supply of houses, as the shortage is there as it was two years ago, when the Bill was first introduced.  The object of that Bill was to keep rent controlled.  The shortage has not been met.  The demand for houses is there still.  Will the President say that on the 24th June these houses will come out of control and allow the tenants to be at the mercy of the landlords?  I move the Second Reading of the Bill, and I challenge the Government to make a statement on it. 
     
      
       I second.  We will give the President three minutes. 
       
         Mr. GOOD:  rose. 
     
     
      
       Is Deputy Good going to second the motion? 
     
     
      
       Would I be in order in moving the adjournment of the debate? 
     
     
      
       On a point of order. A definite question has been asked here by Deputy Davin&mdash;is Deputy Good going to reply for the Government? 
     
     
      
       I made a mistake, unfortunately. I thought that Deputy Good was going to second the motion. I am sorry I misunderstood it. 
     
     
      
       I could be very brief, but I could not state the Government policy in three minutes. 
     
     
      
       Could the President say that we can expect to have the report of the Commission which has been sitting for the last fifteen months? 
     
     
      
       Will the President state definitely whether he will accept the principle in the Bill and that control will be extended beyond the 24th June? 
     
     
      
       Am I in order in moving the adjournment of the debate? 
     
     
      
       I think the Deputy will be in order in speaking up to 2 o'clock. 
     
     
      
       May I say, with great respect, the Bill has been introduced. The Deputy says it is very important, and, in doing so, took three or four minutes, or five minutes at the very   outside, to make his case.  In all decency, I submit that that is not treating the House or the Government fairly. If there was a case to be made, I have not heard it.  If I hear a case in favour of it I will deal with it. 
     
     
      
       You took good care that you would not have more than three minutes to do so. 
     
     
      
       I am taking Deputy Good as moving the adjournment of the debate.  The House has made an order to adjourn until the 18th April, and on the adjournment motion Deputy Lemass has given notice to raise a question. 
     
   
   
     ADJOURNMENT DEBATE. - POSITION OF OFFICIAL OF FISHERMEN'S ASSOCIATION. 
     
      
       I put down Question No. 12 on the Order Paper to-day because information came into my possession that the Minister for Fisheries has used his official position to secure the dismissal from employment of a man who was a political opponent of his. I would like to give the House full particulars about this case, because I think it raises issues of very great importance, issues which the Government must face. I think it will be able to establish that a very serious wrong has been done by the Minister, as a Minister, in this matter. In order that the House should get a connected story, I would like to go back to the General Election of June, 1927. For that election Mr. Lynch, the Minister for Fisheries, was a candidate in the Cumann na nGaedheal interest in the constituency of Kerry.  One man who took an active part in that constituency on behalf of other candidates in opposition to Mr. Lynch was a person named Mr. Patrick Tuohy.  Mr. Tuohy, as Deputies who study the newspapers are aware, prior to the polling day, was seriously assaulted in his hotel by members of the Civic Guard, for which he subsequently secured damages in the courts.  I think that it will be found, when the whole story is known, that the physical assault which was committed on Mr. Tuohy during the course of the election campaign was only part of a general campaign, and that when it was   found that the physical assault had not altered Mr. Tuohy's decision to oppose Mr. Lynch, another and a much meaner course of action was decided on. 
       I think that the best course I could take in order to put all the facts before the House would be to read for the benefit of Deputies a statement of the case contained in a letter sent on 6th August, 1927, to the Minister for Fisheries from Professor Culverwell, President of the Irish Fishermen's Association.  Mr. Tuohy was an organiser in the employment of the Irish Fishermen's Association, and a conference summoned under the auspices of the Ministry of Fisheries had recommended some time previously that the Irish Fishermen's Association should receive a grant-in-aid from the Government. 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy read the recommendations of the Conference on Sea Fisheries and see whether that is so?  The recommendation is recommendation No. 13.  It says: 
       &ldquo;We therefore recommend that the Department of Fisheries be placed in a position to make a grant to the Irish Fishermen's Association or other approved body of the kind.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       The actual recommendation of the Conference on Fisheries has very little to do with this case. 
     
     
      
       Why bring it in then? 
     
     
      
       I am bringing it in for the information of Deputies so that they will understand all the circumstances. As I said, Mr. Tuohy was an organiser in the employment of the Association, and because a recommendation had been made which implied, at any rate, that the Irish Fishermen's Association might get a grant from the Government, the Ministry of Fisheries could be considered to be in a position in which they could exercise very considerable pressure on the Association.  The letter is as follows: 
     
     Dear Mr. Lynch,&mdash;Not having the opportunity of discussing the position re Recommendation 13 of the Conference over with you, as requested in my letter of the 3rd inst., I am putting on paper the situation   as it appears to me.  On going to the Department some weeks ago to inquire as to the prospects of implementing the Interim Report, Mr. Rush met me with an oral message from you to the effect that, &ldquo;while I, personally, was to be treated with courtesy, I was, if I called, to be informed that you had given instructions that so long as the Irish Fishermen's Association employed Mr. Tuohy the Department was to have no dealings with it.&rdquo;  No reason was given, but on inquiry elsewhere I found that Mr. Tuohy had spoken against your election for Kerry.  I thereupon wrote to you to explain that Mr. Tuohy's action was in no way authorised by the Committee of the Association, and that he was, in fact, on unpaid leave of absence.  I did this in the hope and, I may say, the expectation that when this was made clear the embargo on &ldquo;dealings&rdquo; with the Association would be raised. 
     You replied to the effect that you had never supposed I had anything to do with Mr. Tuohy's activities, and that you were sure I should understand and appreciate your action.  I found myself unable to do so.  I could understand that Mr. Lynch, as a private individual, might resent so strongly the opposition offered to his re-election by Mr. Tuohy, that he might refuse to have any dealings with the latter, in his private capacity, but I found myself quite unable to understand how Mr. Lynch, as Minister for Fisheries, whose function it was to promote the fishing industry, could refuse to have any dealings with an Association having the same object, an Association which, during my Presidency, had maintained amicable relations with the Department, and which, in the opinion of a conference appointed by the Minister, had done such valuable work, that it was unanimously considered deserving of a Government subsidy to enable it to carry on the work in which it was engaged. 
     As you had only referred to my position in your reply, I wrote again to point out that not only I, but the   Association, had no responsibility for Mr. Tuohy's action, and that, though the latter had felt that when he was on unpaid leave of absence, he was at full liberty to exercise his undoubted rights as a citizen, I had spoken very strongly to him about it, because I felt that it was a very injudicious thing for him to do. Further, that I was in a position to assure you that, so far as the future was concerned and while he acted as Secretary and Organiser under the Association, you would have no reason to complain of want of cooperation on the part of the Association. In your reply, you adhered to your decision, giving as the reason, that Mr. Tuohy might be off duty and off pay on some future occasion, and might then repeat his attacks. This was not a reason I could accept as satisfactory.  To my mind&mdash;and I wish to put it quite clearly&mdash;the only reason which could justify a Public Department in refusing to have any dealings with an Association would be, that the Association itself had, by its conduct of its business with the Department, put itself out of court. 
     As my object was to serve the interests of the industry, I, in replying, refrained from anything in the way of criticism, lest that might compromise the chances of coming to a satisfactory arrangement, and I discussed the matter with Mr. Tuohy before writing.  We agreed that these interests would be best served by his resignation, and I wrote to inform you of this, going so far as to say that I did recognise that, holding the views that he did of the Department's activities in the past, it might be difficult to avoid friction if he remained in his post (for though confident that no friction would arise on our side, I felt that it might easily arise through action on the other side, a consideration which I did not then express, and only add now in justice to Mr. Tuohy). 
     It appeared to me that Mr. Tuohy's resignation must remove any possible objection you could otherwise have felt to implementing the unanimous   Recommendation 13 of the Conference as to a State Subsidy. For it did not seem credible that you would first put pressure on the Association to dismiss Mr. Tuohy, and then, when you had attained your object, endeavour to break up the Association, by refusing to act on the Report of the Conference appointed by yourself.  Yet that is the present position.  For when, in the letter conveying the fact that Mr. Tuohy had written to me resigning his position, I put to you the same facts as those which I had put to the Conference&mdash;facts which showed that the Association could not carry on without a subsidy, facts which the Conference recognised were inevitable, and in consequence of which the Conference had unanimously recommended a subsidy. When I put these facts to you, explaining that I could not go on incurring fresh liabilities on behalf of the Association, but should have to resign if the refusal was persisted in, your reply was that in consequence of the &ldquo;virtual demise&rdquo; of the Association, you would not recommend the Minister for Finance to make a grant. 
     The next paragraph deals with matters concerning the implementation of Paragraph 13 of the Conference.  As I said, I do not want to drag that matter across the matter contained in the question, and I will not read it.  I would like to read the concluding portion, which states that: &ldquo;Rightly or wrongly the fishermen have formed such an unfavourable opinion of the Department's policy and efficiency that any attempt on the part of the Department to organise them could only result in complete failure.  Further, the action taken in regard to Mr. Tuohy, whose value they know so well, and whose devotion to their interests they appreciate so highly, together with the breaking up of the Association consequent on the refusal, if it be persisted in, to implement Recommendation 13, would create an atmosphere so antagonistic to the Department as to paralyse any efforts it made to benefit the industry.&rdquo; 
     I think from the facts as stated that it will be quite clear that the Minister for Fisheries was exercising his official   capacity, his office as a Minister, to vent a personal and private spite which he held against Mr. Tuohy, who was an organiser of the Fishermen's Association. He did that although it had been pointed out to him by people in a position to make authoritative statements on the matter&mdash;a person like Professor Culverwell, for example&mdash;that the action he was taking was going so to antagonise the Irish fishermen towards the Department that the utility of the Department in the matter of benefiting the fishing industry would be destroyed. Subsequent to the date on which that letter was written there was another general election, and again Mr. Tuohy, exercising his undoubted rights as a citizen, went to Kerry and participated in the election there in opposition to Mr. Lynch. 
     
      
       And I again headed the poll. 
     
     
      
       Mr. Lynch again headed the poll.  Mr. Tuohy was arrested under the Public Safety Act, placed in prison, and he was released subsequently.  I do not want to refer to it, as the matter may be sub-judice, but he thinks he got proof that his arrest was illegal.  In any case he was in prison, and as Mr. Lynch says, he was put at the head of the poll. 
     
     
      
       That explains it. 
     
     
      
       And thanks to Tuohy, both in June and September. 
     
     
      
       Of course, out of seven seats, four Republican candidates were elected. 
     
     
      
       Was it thanks to Tuohy, four Republicans were elected? 
     
     
      
       Thanks to Tuohy, I headed the poll. 
     
     
      
       And thanks to Tuohy, four Republicans were elected? 
     
     
      
       Four what?  Four what? 
     
     
      
       The Minister has, no doubt, plenty of reason for becoming excited. 
     
     
      
       Not a bit.  I am always amused at Deputy Flinn. 
     
     
     
      
       We have here fairly conclusive evidence that, as I said, the Minister for Fisheries has taken action which might well be described as corruption. Mr. Lynch as a private individual has, no doubt, a perfect right to score off Mr. Tuohy as a private individual in any way he likes within the law.  But I say that Mr. Lynch, as Minister for Fisheries, had no right whatever to put any pressure upon an association with which his Department was dealing in order to deprive a political opponent of his livelihood. There have been mean things done in this country, but surely that is one of the meanest.  We could understand Mr. Lynch arranging, if he did arrange, the physical assault on Mr. Tuohy in June&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Thanks. 
     
     
      
       The old game. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;and we could understand the illegal arrest to get him out of the way for the elections in September, but surely there are Deputies to-day, even some of the members of the Cumann na nGaedheal Party, who would not sink to this kind of action&mdash; using official authority to deprive a man of his bread and butter, which is something that I do not think the majority of the members of the Minister's Party would approve of.  If Mr. Lynch cannot controvert these facts&mdash;and I do not think he can&mdash;if he cannot prove that every statement I have made is inaccurate, is, in fact, a lie, I think, in the interests of public decency and in the interests of the honour of Cumann na nGaedheal&mdash;if there is any honour in Cumann na nGaedheal&mdash;he should be asked to resign from the position he holds. 
     
     
      
       Put down a motion. 
     
     
      
       I think it is nothing to the credit of this country that a man who can take such action as that can hold Ministerial office.  I am sorry that the President is not here, because I would like to put it very forcibly to him that his honour is affected, as well as the honour of the Government, by having a Minister who has taken such action.  I want to give Mr. Lynch time   to reply; I want him, if possible, to controvert the facts.  I want him to give some explanation other than the obvious one that he wanted to score against a person who opposed his election and against whom he felt a private spite. 
     
     
      
       Perhaps it would clear the air if I read the question and the written answer to it.  The question was: 
       To ask the Minister for Fisheries whether he made representations to, or exercised any pressure on, the Irish Fishermen's Association to secure the dismissal of Mr. P.J. Tuohy from the employment of that organisation. 
       The reply given by my Department, and submitted to me, I should say, a few times, was: 
       Having found that the chief executive officer of the Irish Fishermen's Association was engaging actively in work for a political organisation which was avowedly unconstitutional in its aim&mdash;that was before June, before they took the oath&mdash;I declined to deal with a committee which permitted its chief officer so to act.  I have not, however, sought to maintain that attitude since the organisation in question decided to adopt constitutional methods.  At the same time there is, in my opinion, the gravest objection to active participation in politics by a person holding such a position, as it can only result in splitting up the members of his organisation into rival political camps instead of concentrating on the objects of their Association and complying with their adopted motto: &ldquo;Unity is Strength.&rdquo; 
     
     Whatever the Deputy may think, I do know that in that last paragraph there is horse sense from the point of view of any organisation that is attempting to achieve anything for any particular industry.  In fact, when Professor Culverwell came to me after the writing of one of those letters that Deputy Lemass has read, and asked me if this was something to prevent Tuohy getting a job as organiser, I said: &ldquo;I will put it this way, Professor: If any man was so tarred with the Cumann na nGaedheal brush in the way of being an organiser for an election   campaign in an area where there was fishing, and if he was put up to me as an organiser, I would have to decline to sanction him, because it would be immediately dividing the fishermen into camps&mdash;the Fianna Fail camp and the Cumann na nGaedheal camp.&rdquo; 
     
      
       That is very thick. 
     
     
      
       Well, if it is as thick as the Deputy I will leave it at that. 
     
     
      
       We could not swallow that. 
     
     
      
       I said that to Professor Culverwell.  Professor Culverwell, as a matter of fact, is not a friend of mine. I have often told him myself that he has been as ignorant a critic of the Department as most of the other critics.  I have said that to him perfectly candidly. 
     
     
      
       A good judge of ignorant critics. 
     
     
      
       If you take your hand away from your mouth, Jerry, I could hear what you have to say. 
     
     
      
       I said you were a good judge of ignorant critics, Finian. I have taken my hand away from my jaw now. 
     
     
      
       Well, put a sock in it. 
     
     
      
       I hope that that will be in the official records. 
     
     
      
       I made a proposition to Professor Culverwell in regard to the whole Association after the Fianna Fail Deputies had come into the Dail.  I told Professor Culverwell that the situation had changed; that in regard to Tuohy that he was an organiser for a body which was acting against the Constitution, which was, if you like, a party to any action taken against the State. When the Fianna Fail Party came into the Dail, took the oath, and complied with the letter of Article 17 of the Constitution, there was a different position. I informed Professor Culverwell of that fact, and said I had no particular grievance against Tuohy.  As far as I was concerned, he had done me a great deal of good in Kerry, because I know that fishermen in Dingle and Cahirciveen   valued Tuohy at the estimate that I put on him.  I told Professor Culverwell that there was a different situation, but that it would be entirely inadvisable to have him as an organiser going through the country.  He might remain Secretary of the Association in Dublin, but that as an organiser, when selected by the body that I hoped would become the new Fishermen's Association, three men who had nothing to do with my Department, men like Dr. Kennedy of the I.A.O.S., The Seabhac who was Chairman of the Fishermen's Conference&mdash;when I said three I was thinking of Dr. O'Brien of the University&mdash;who have no connection with the Department, under the Chairmanship of Dr. Culverwell, when they came to appoint organisers, subject to my sanction, I would be very slow to sanction persons like Tuohy as an organiser, or any person who was a Cumann na nGaedheal organiser in any fishing district, because instead of creating any kind of cohesion amongst the fishermen they would be divided into two camps.  That is my point.  I stand over that very definitely.  There is an attempt here&mdash;it was not made in the courts&mdash;to throw on my shoulders responsibility for what Deputy Lemass called physical assault on Tuohy in Kerry.  I say I know nothing about that, but I know that if fellows are going around looking for trouble normally, they get it.  I saw Tuohy at the Dingle meeting I addressed coming along when others were speaking and being protected by persons against whom he has since got damages in a civil action&mdash;protected because the fishermen of Dingle, and those who go security for loans for the fishermen of Dingle, wanted to chastise him as he might have deserved. 
     
     
      
       I suppose they were all on State pay? 
     
     
      
       A detective officer that the Court subsequently gave a verdict against, saved Tuohy that day from getting a very fine hammering from the fishermen of Dingle. 
     
     
      
       And that night went into the hotel at 12 o'clock and gave him a good hammering. 
     
     
      
       I make you a gift of that.  The particular detective was an   officer with a record that some people would be glad to have. 
     
     
      
       Not of that kind. 
     
     
      
       As far as the much meaner course of action is concerned, having failed apparently to kill Tuohy in Kerry, the suggestion is now that I wanted to deprive him of his job.  The fact is that after the June election, once the Fianna Fail Deputies came into the Dail, had taken the oath we had all taken, and complied with Article 17 of the Constitution, I immediately informed Professor Culverwell that there was a new situation, and that that new situation created a different position as far as Tuohy was concerned.  He was not then acting as a person out against the Constitution, and therefore I gave permission in my office to deal with the Fishermen's Association and with Tuohy.  I make no apology for it.  That is my position.  If the Deputy likes I could say that the answer to the question on the Order Paper is in the affirmative, in the sense that I have said   that, as long as Tuohy was acting for a Party which was out for destroying the Constitution of this country; out for creating trouble; out, if you like, to foster armed forces against the Government of the country&mdash;well then I would have great pleasure in accepting that position. 
     
     
      
       Might I point out to the Minister that the statement given to Professor Culverwell by Mr. Rush of his Department was that the Department was to have no dealings whatever with the Association while Mr. Tuohy was in its employ.  Apparently the danger to the State of Mr. Tuohy drawing a salary was so great that the Irish Fishermen's Association was to be broken up by the Minister. 
     
     
      
       As long as Mr. Tuohy thought fit to advocate the unconstitutional policy that Deputy Lemass and Deputy de Valera advocated prior to the June election, or indeed for a short time subsequent to it&mdash;&mdash; 
       The Dail adjourned at 2.30 p.m. until the 18th April. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - TAX ON HACKNEY MOTOR CARS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that great hardship has resulted to motor hackney owners by the increase of taxation imposed by the Finance Act, 1926; that numbers of these men, owing to the severe competition of buses, etc., are finding great difficulty in making a livelihood; and whether he will consider, in connection with the forthcoming Budget, a reversion to the figure which prevailed prior to the Finance Act, 1926. 
     
     
      
       With regard to the first and second parts of the question, I would refer the Deputy to my reply to a question asked by Deputy Shaw on the 1st instant.  With regard to the last part, I regret that I cannot anticipate my Budget statement. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - PINSIUN MI-ABALTACHTA (ATHA NA SLUAGH). 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Cosanta ce an fath ar baineadh an pinsiun mi-abaltachta de Patrick Harrison, Canal View, Beal Atha na Sluagh, agus an ndeunfaidh an tAire an sceul san a aith-bhreithniu. 
     
     
      
       Do dheonadh pinsean sealadach do Patrick Harrison on 18adh la de Bhealtaine, 1923, go dti an 30adh la de Mheitheamh, 1925, mar gheall ar ghortu adubhairt se a fuair se tre thuitim de lorrai.  Ba leir de bharr tuille fiosruithe a dineadh i mi an Mheithimh, 1925, narbh e an tuitim den lorrai fe ndear a mhi-abaltacht, agus do socruiodh da bhri sin na feadfi an   pinsean d'ioc leis a thuille.  Taim tar eis an cas do bhreithniu agus is oth liom a ra nach feidir liom an socru so d'atharu. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ARMY FISH SUPPLIES 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence if he will state for what reason Army units are being supplied with inferior imported fish instead of Irish fresh fish. 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that Army units are being supplied with inferior imported fish instead of Irish fresh fish. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ELIGIBILITY OF GARDAI AS LOCAL GOVERNMENT ELECTORS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if members of the Garda Siochana, resident in barracks, are eligible to be registered as Local Government voters, and, if so, under what section of what Act. 
     
     
      
       The statutory conditions governing the Local Government franchise are contained in the Representation of the People Act, 1918, as amended by the Local Government Electors Registration Act, 1924.  Members of the Garda Siochana as such are not disqualified from being registered as Local Government electors so long as they fulfil the statutory conditions. The Registration Officer is the authority to determine whether or not a person is entitled to franchise, and I have no jurisdiction. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - WATERFORD ELECTION EXPENSES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state when the expenses of the General Election of September, 1927, will be paid in County Waterford. 
     
     
      
       The detailed examination of returning officers' election expenses accounts is a tedious and laborious task, and it has not yet been   found possible to deal with the September General Election account submitted to my Department by the Returning Officer for the County Constituency of Waterford.  I am, however, having the matter attended to with a view to the early authorisation of payment of all outstanding claims. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - REDUCTION OF OLD AGE PENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he will state on what grounds the old age pension granted to Mrs. Margaret Higgins, Boghill, Athenry, was reduced; and whether he will consider restoring the full pension to her. 
     
     
      
       This case has not come up on appeal, and I have therefore no information or functions in regard to it.  I am, however, referring the matter to the Minister for Finance, who may be in a position to reply to the Deputy. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DESIGN OF NEW HOUSES IN DUBLIN. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health (a) whether he is aware that the design of houses, now being erected on the Hundred Foot Road, Griffith Avenue, and Upper Drumcondra Road, is inferior to that contained in the original plan; (b) whether he is aware that great dissatisfaction exists among the ratepayers of the area, because of the alteration; (c) and whether he will make representations to the City Commissioners with a view to impressing on them the desirability of adhering to the original design of house proposed for the area. 
     
     
      
       From inquiries made from the City Commissioners it is understood that no particular design of house was prepared for the construction of houses in the area in question. Moreover, the types of houses now proposed to be erected in the area cannot be regarded as detrimental to the amenities of other ratepayers in the district. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - TREATMENT OF FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether his veterinary staff have considered the possibility of the treatment, with a view to cure, of animals affected with foot-and-mouth disease. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is presumably aware that in this country the curative treatment of foot and mouth disease is not a feasible proposition. The chief asset of the Irish live stock industry is the British market, which we hold only on the condition that when the disease appears in Ireland it is promptly suppressed. The only possible means of suppression is the immediate slaughter of all infected animals and of all animals exposed to infection.  Fortunately the country has been troubled by the disease at very rare intervals, there having, in the present century, been only three visitations prior to that of this year, i.e., in the years 1912, 1914 and 1921. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE INFECTION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether the veterinary staff of the Department of Lands and Agriculture are satisfied that foot and mouth disease is not conveyed by imported feeding stuffs or by imported meat. 
     
     
      
       It has for some time been generally recognised that imported meat may be the medium of introducing foot and mouth disease, and the Department have taken action accordingly.  Under the Importation of Carcases Orders of 1926 and 1927 the importation of all meat and meat offals from the Continent of Europe is forbidden, with the exception of bacon or ham, which has undergone a prescribed process of curing; pigs' heads and feet which have been 14 days in brine or salt and are imported in disinfected barrels; salted hides, fell-mongered hair, and certain cooked or preserved meats.  The question of extending this prohibition to meat from non-Continental   countries is at present under consideration, as is also the question of regulating the importation of other commodities which may be the vehicle of disease.  The importation of hay or straw and of fodder containing hay or straw is already prohibited.  The inquiries at present proceeding extend to other imported feeding stuffs, but so far there appears to be no grounds for suspecting them. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - SEEDING AND MANURING OF LANDS IN RESTRICTED AREA. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether he is taking steps to ensure that farmers in the restricted area who cannot sell their stock are not left without seeds or manure for their land. 
     
     
      
       Stockowners in the restricted area, except those residing within two miles of the premises where the existence of foot and mouth disease was recently confirmed, may now obtain licences for the movement to Enniscorthy and Wexford of cattle, sheep and swine for slaughter in those towns.  It is hoped that the result of the facilities thus afforded for the disposal of their fat stock will appreciably lighten the immediate financial difficulties of stockowners in the area generally. 
       The Department have no funds for the purpose of supplying seeds or manures to farmers. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - SCIURADH CUAN NA gCEALL BEAG. 
     
      
       den Aire Iascaigh an feasach do go bhfuil glar salach ag cruinniughadh i gCuan na gCeall Beag i nDun na nGall agus, os rud e go bhfuil suil le hiasgaireacht mhor scadan i dtus an tSamhraidh san ait seo, an gcuirfidh an tAire long glanta ann chun an cuan a sciuradh. 
     
     
      
       Ta fhios agam go bhfuil ga le roinnt sciurala do dheanamh i gCuan na gCeall mBeag d'fhonn is go mbeadh leor-shaoraidi le fail ag baid iascaigh a dhineann usaid den ait; agus taim ag deanamh fiosruithe feachaint an bhfuil   long glanta oiriunach le fail.  Nuair a bheidh an t-eolas san agam cuirfead in uil do Choimisineiri Chuan na gCeall mBeag an feidir an sciurail do dheanamh in am d'iascach an tSamhraidh no nach feidir. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - EMPLOYMENT OF OFFICIAL OF FISHING ASSOCIATION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he made representations to, or exercised any pressure on, the Irish Fishermen's Association to secure the dismissal of Mr. P.J. Tuohy from the employment of that organisation. 
     
     
      
       Having found that the chief executive officer of the Irish Fishermen's Association was engaging actively in work for a political organisation which was avowedly unconstitutional in its aims, I declined to deal with a committee which permitted its chief officer so to act.  I have not, however, sought to maintain that attitude since the organisation in question decided to adopt constitutional methods. At the same time there is, in my opinion, the gravest objection to active participation in politics by a person holding such a position; as it can only result in splitting up the members of his organisation into rival political camps instead of concentrating on the objects of their association and complying with their adopted motto, &ldquo;Unity is Strength.&rdquo; 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DIVISION OF OFFALY LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether the Irish Land Commission propose to acquire the estate of Mr. J. Duff, situate near Kilcurley, Tubber, Offaly, for the relief of congestion in the vicinity. 
     
     
      
       Patrick J. Duff was returned by owner as a judicial tenant of a holding on the townland of Kilcurley containing 169a. 1r. 25p. on the estate of Lewis Goodbody and Another (Trustees of G.W. Marsh, deceased) which is being dealt with by the Land   Commission under the Land Act, 1923. Notice of intention to retain the holding under the provision of Section 2 (6) (b) Land Act, 1923, was published on 13th December, 1927.  The Commissioners will consider whether steps should be taken to resume the holding. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether the Irish Land Commission propose to acquire for the relief of congestion the estates of Mrs. Biddulph, Moneyguyneen, Kinnity, Offaly, and of Pidgeonstown, Kinnity. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have acquired an area of 132a. 1r. 28p. situate in the townlands of Moneyguynell, Lettybrook, and The Walk, on the estate of Mrs. Biddulph, and the question of the disposal of these lands is under consideration. 
       As regards the lands of Pidgeonstown, on the estate of Mrs. M.C.E. Alexander, the Land Commission have not instituted proceedings for the acquisition of these lands, but they have had inspected the lands of Knockbarron, containing 186a. 3r. 30p., on this estate, and have instituted proceedings for their acquisition under the provisions of the Land Act, 1923.  It is expected that these lands will be published at an early date in a Provisional List of lands which, if not excluded in consequence of a valid objection, will become vested in the Land Commission on the appointed day. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether the Irish Land Commission have yet acquired the lands of Henry L. King, Ferbane, Offaly. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to have not yet been acquired, but the Land Commission are having them inspected. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF MAYO LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether the Irish Land Commission propose to acquire the lands of Shanaghy, Mosgrove, and Ardnaree, Ballina, County Mayo, on the Jones estate, for distribution amongst the uneconomic landholders of the district. 
     
     
     
      
       The Land Commission have under consideration the acquisition of the untenanted land on the Jones estate, which includes lands of Shanaghy or Ardnaree. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether the Land Commission propose to acquire the lands of Quignalecka, Ballina, County Mayo, in possession of Mr. John Garvey, Lyndsay estate, for distribution amongst the uneconomic landholders of the district. 
     
     
      
       In the Schedule of Particulars lodged by the landlord John Garvey is returned as tenant of a holding on townland of Quignalecka, containing 15 acres 3 roods 5 perches, and Mrs. Harriet Garvey is returned as judicial tenant of holding in same townland, area 29 acres 3 roods 6 perches.  The estate has not yet been reached in its turn to be dealt with. When it is being dealt with the Commissioners will consider whether these holdings should be &ldquo;retained.&rdquo; 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - FISHING RIGHTS IN CARROW MORE LAKE (MAYO). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether the Land Commission have acquired the fishing rights in the Carrowmore Lake, on the Carter estate, situate at Carrowmore, Barnatra, Ballina, County Mayo; and, if so, whether the Land Commission will vest those rights in the tenants of this estate. 
     
     
      
       The lands in question have not yet been vested in the Land Commission, and accordingly it follows that such fishing rights as are appurtenant to the lands have not yet been vested in the Commissioners. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DIVISION OF ROSCOMMON ESTATES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries when it is proposed to proceed with the division of the Mapother and Glover estates, Kilteevan, County Roscommon. 
     
     
      
       As regards the Glover estate, proceedings have been instituted under the provisions of the Land Act. 1923. for the acquisition of the   lands of Rathfuadagh, comprising 156 acres, and Tonlegee, containing 200 acres.  These lands were published in a provisional list of lands which, if not excluded in consequence of a valid objection, will become vested in the Land Commission on the Appointed Day.  An objection was lodged by the owner to the acquisition of the lands on Tonlegee by the Land Commission and is at present pending for decision in court.  As regards the lands of Rathfuadagh, the price has been determined, and a scheme for the division of the lands is at present in course of preparation.  As regards the Mapother estate, the question of the acquisition of untenanted land situate in townlands of Aghonagree, Kilteevan, Cloontimullen, Clooneigh and Cloontogher, on this estate, is under consideration. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA.&mdash;QUESTIONS.   WRITTEN ANSWERS. - PURCHASE OF MAYO ESTATES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state (a) whether the Land Commission propose acquiring the lands of Mountfalcon, Ballina, County Mayo, on the Captain M.A.F. Knox estate, for distribution amongst the uneconomic landholders of the district; (b) when the Land Commission will vest the holdings on this estate in the tenants. 
     
     
      
       The lands of Mount Falcon, referred to in the first part of the question, appear to comprise parts of the townlands of Drumrevagh, Tonybawn, and Ballymacredmond, forming Owner's Demesne of about 320 statute acres.  Owner is not willing to sell any part of the lands, and the Commissioners do not propose to take any action as regards them.  As regards the latter part of the question, the re-sale of the holding on the U.A.F. Knox estate, which was purchased by the late Congested Districts Boards, is engaging the attention of the Land Commission and every effort is being made to expedite their re-sale. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether the Land Commission propose to acquire the Stuart-McNulty Farm (Verschoyle estate), situate at Carrowcuslaun, Ballina, Co. Mayo, for distribution amongst the small landholders of the district. 
     
     
     
      
       The farm referred to contains 60a. 2r. 30p. in the townland of Carrowcushlaun, on the Verschoyle estate, and is now returned as in the hands of the owner of that estate.  The Commissioners are making inquiries regarding it, and the other untenanted lands on the estate. 
     
   
 