 
 
 
   
     
     
     
        Do chuaidh an Ceann Comhairle i gceannas ar 3 p.m. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GENERAL NURSE FOR BERE ISLAND. 
     
      
       asked the President whether he is aware that in response to the advertisement issued by the Local Appointments Commissioners no application was received for the position of general nurse for Bere Island, County Cork, and whether, in view of the difficulty of obtaining a suitable candidate for this position, the Commissioners will consider the question of altering the terms of the advertisement in order that a maternity nurse may be appointed. 
     
     
      
       The Local Appointments Commissioners received a statutory request to recommend for appointment a nurse with midwifery qualifications for Bere Island in June last. 
       The vacancy has been advertised on two occasions, but so far it has not been found possible to secure a suitable candidate possessing the dual qualifications. 
       The Local Appointments Commissioners can only deal with the statutory request received by them, and further steps are being taken with a view to securing a nurse with the required midwifery qualification. 
     
     I am informed by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health that from the medical point of view it is most desirable that a resident nurse should be appointed, but if the steps now being taken by the Commissioners should prove unsuccessful, the Minister would be prepared to consider the appointment of a midwife instead.  In   such case, however, it would, of course, be necessary to revise the rate of remuneration as well as the other terms of the office. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - PRESIDENT'S AMERICAN TOUR. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will state whether the expenses of the recent visit of the President and party to the United States of America and Canada were paid out of public funds; and, if so, out of what fund and by what authority; and, further, if he will state the amount of these expenses. 
     
     
      
       Ise freagra ata ar an gcead chuid den cheist na gur hiocadh.  Maidir leis an dara cuid di, deanfar an caithteachas fe n-ar chuathas d'fhail as na suimeanna a votail an Dail chun costaisi Roinn Uachtaran na hArd-Chomhairle agus na Roinne Gnothai Coigriche d'ioc i rith na bliana airgeadais seo.  Deirtear liom gurb e meid iomlan costaisi na cuairde na timpeal £950. 
     
     
      
       An raibh an meid sin ins na meastachain a tugadh os coir na Dala tuairim blian o shoin? 
     
     
      
       Ta airgead ins na meastachain i gcoir costaisi taistil. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TEACHERS' PENSION FUND. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is yet in a position to say when the actuarial investigation into the Teachers' Pension Fund will be completed. 
     
     
      
       From the latest information available as to the actuarial investigation, I expect to receive the Report before Whitsuntide. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KINSALE COMPENSATION AWARD 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he is aware that a decree for £60 was granted under the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act to Michael Barry, victualler, Kinsale, but has not been paid, and if the Minister can see his way to reconsider his decision in this matter. 
     
     
     
      
       A report under Section 15 of the Act, not a decree, was made in this case recommending payment of £60 in respect of meat alleged to have been taken without the applicant's consent.  It is the duty of my Department to examine recommendations of this kind, and after the fullest consideration of this case in the light of the information at my disposal, I was satisfied that the goods were not, in fact, taken without the applicant's consent. I accordingly felt bound to refuse payment, and I regret that I am unable to depart from this decision. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that in the same town and under the same circumstances some ten other merchants were paid for goods supplied to the Republican Army during their occupation of that town?  Is the Minister aware that this man supplied goods in exactly the same manner as the others, and will he state why exactly he cannot reconsider his decision in view of the fact that these other people have been paid? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware that there are other cases in which the circumstances are the same. 
     
     
      
       If any further evidence is produced to the Minister to show that there were ten or twelve other merchants in the town who were paid for the goods they supplied under the same circumstances, will he reconsider the matter? 
     
     
      
       I will consider any evidence or information in connection with the case. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SHANNON FLOODING (ROSCOMMON). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that considerable damage is done to and considerable loss suffered by the farming community each year at Rooskey, County Roscommon, by the flooding of the Shannon; if an engineer has been sent to inspect the area and make a report thereon, what the recommendations of the engineer were; and whether it is the intention of the Minister to give effect to these recommendations. 
     
     
     
      
       Representations were made to the Commissioners of Public Works respecting the flooding of lands at Rooskey, Co. Roscommon, by the Shannon and last year they sent an experienced land valuer to the district in order to estimate the area affected by the Shannon flooding and the improvement in annual value that would accrue if a drainage scheme were carried out.  His work was considerably hampered by bad weather and in addition he was required for urgent work elsewhere.  His report on the lands affected by flooding in Co. Roscommon has been completed, but that dealing with Co. Leitrim is not yet available.  When the complete report is received it will at once be considered, with a view to seeing whether a scheme can be formulated to reduce the flooding complained of, and on what financial terms. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TARIFF COMMISSION.   (WOOLLEN CLOTH AND FLOUR) 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether the Tariff Commission has yet reported on the applications made for tariffs on woollen cloth and flour, and, if so, when it proposed to place these reports before the Dail. 
     
     
      
       The Tariff Commission has not yet reported on these applications. I understand that it has concluded its investigation of the application relating to flour and that the report is at present being prepared.  I am informed that the investigation in regard to woollens and worsteds is still in progress and that no date can yet be given by which it will be concluded. The reports, will be laid before the Dail when they have been received and the Executive Council has decided what action, if any, is to be taken upon them. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister anticipate that the reports will be laid before the Dail during the present session? 
     
     
      
       The report in regard to the application for a tariff on flour certainly will.  As the investigation in regard to the tariff on woollen cloth has   not been completed and is not likely to be completed for some little time, I cannot say about that. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DAMAGE TO PROPERTY AWARDS (A COUNTY LONGFORD CASE). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance what was the total amount awarded and paid in respect of the destruction of the house on the MeKay Wilson Estate, Currygrane, Co. Longford, under the Damage to Property (Compensation) Acts; how much of this was awarded for reconstruction in the Saorstat; and how much has been spent up to the present in accordance with the reconstruction award in this case. 
     
     
      
       A sum of £16,426, of which £12,000 was subject to a partial reinstatement condition, was awarded under the Damage to Property (Compensation) Act, 1923, by way of compensation in respect of the destruction of Currygrane House and its contents. In addition, £245 9s. 7d. was awarded as costs and expenses.  A scheme submitted on the applicant's behalf under Section 10 (1) (ii.) of the Act to expend the conditional portion of the decree on the erection of houses in Sandycove, Co. Dublin, was approved by the Circuit Court.  Not less than £12,000 has been expended in accordance with the amended reinstatement condition, and the full amount awarded together with the addition of 10 per cent. for which provision is made in the Damage to Property (Compensation) (Amendment) Act, 1926, has accordingly been paid.  I may add. for the Deputy's information, that the liability of the Exchequer to the extent of £4,000 in respect of this award was discharged by the issue of 5 per cent. Compensation Stock instead of cash. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Minister what progress has been made with reconstruction in Sandycove? 
     
     
      
       It has been completed. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Minister if it is a fact that the moneys awarded to James McKay Wilson have been taken out of the country? 
     
     
     
      
       No.  I told the Deputy that not less than £12,000 has been expended in the erection of buildings in Sandycove, Co. Dublin. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - INCOME TAX COLLECTION COSTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance what are the costs of income tax collection and administration for the years 1923-24 and subsequent years under the following heads:&mdash;(a) Fees and remuneration paid to the Law Officers for services in connection with income and super tax; (b) the salaries, expenses and all charges of the Revenue Commissioners in relation to income tax matters; (c) the salaries, expenses and all charges for the Special Commissioners for income tax; (d) the salaries, fees, emoluments, allowances, and all expenses of the Inspectors of Taxes; (e) the total expenses of the various offices of the Inspectors covering the salaries of their staffs, wages of attendants, insurance, carriage of documents, postage, telephones, and all expenses per year; (f) the fees, poundage, remuneration, allowances or otherwise paid to Collectors of Taxes in the State; (g) the heads in detail of annual expenses as follows:&mdash; Stationery chargeable for income and super-tax uses, postage likewise chargeable, rents paid, including apportioned rents of Government Offices otherwise occupied. 
     
     
      
       I regret it has not been possible to obtain the information requested in time for to-day.  If the Deputy will repeat his question this day week, I hope to be able to give such information as is available. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - WIGG AND COCHRANE CASE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether and when it is intended to give effect to the judgment of the Wigg and Cochrane case as regards Civil Service pensions. 
     
     
      
       The Government have had under consideration the opinions expressed by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the case of   Wigg and another versus the Attorney-General. 
       The Government are desirous of honouring to the fullest extent their obligations under Article 10 of the Treaty.  It is clear, however, that some of the opinions expressed by the Judicial Committee in the case referred to would, if given effect to, result in more favourable treatment under Article 10 of the Treaty being accorded to transferred officers in the matter of bonus than they would have received had they remained in the British Civil Service or than transferred officers who elect to remain in the Civil Service of the Saorstat would receive on ultimate retirement in the normal course under the Superannuation Acts.  Such a result was not intended by Article 10 of the Treaty. 
       The Executive Council have accordingly decided to introduce into the Oireachtas at the earliest practicable date proposals for legislation providing that awards of compensation already made by the Minister for Finance on the recommendation of the Committee, which was presided over by Mr. Justice Wylie, shall be binding in law. The legislative proposals will include a provision for the setting up of a Statutory Committee constituted somewhat on the lines of the defunct Committee, whose duty it will be to adjudicate upon all pending and future claims under Article 10.  The determination of this Committee on any application or question referred to them will be final and conclusive.  In assessing compensation the Committee will be required to adhere in the treatment of bonus to the basis applicable to officers in the British Civil Service immediately prior to the transfer of the officers to the service of the Provisional Government. 
     
     The Government are prepared to reimburse the taxed costs as between party and party incurred by or on behalf of the persons concerned as plaintiffs in the case of Wigg and another versus the Attorney-General, but they desire it to be known that any persons pursuing litigation in the Courts after this date in regard to claims under Article 10 will do so at their own risk.  It is intended that provision will be made in connection with   pending actions in the proposed legislation. 
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SCIENCE AND TECHNICAL INSTRUCTION GRANTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Education what university institutions, medical and dental schools received grants under Vote 48, Sub-head E, of the Estimates for 1926-27, in which the &ldquo;Annual Grants to Schools and Classes of Science and Technical Instruction&rdquo; are given as £69,875; and what is the amount granted to the institutions referred to. 
     
     
      
       The university institutions, medical and dental schools that receive grants under Sub-head E of Vote No. 48, with the amount of the grant actually paid in each case in the financial year 1926-27 are as follows:&mdash;School of Physic, Trinity College, Dublin, £1,103 13s.; Royal College of Surgeons, Dublin, £517 13s.; Incorporated Dental Hospital, Dublin, £704 5s. 2d. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - LICENSING LEGISLATION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice if it is intended to introduce proposals for legislation to extend the hours during which licensed houses, etc., remain open for the sale of intoxicating liquor. 
     
     
      
       The answer is in the negative. 
     
     
      
       Might I point out to the Minister that the majority of the people in the Saorstat would be in favour of a nine hours' opening on Sunday? 
     
     
      
       Question! 
     
     
      
       That is not a supplementary question. 
     
     
      
       The position is very unsatisfactory at present and there is no meaning of the words &ldquo;bona fide.&rdquo; 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - AMENDMENT OF MONEY-LENDING LAWS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether it is proposed   to take steps to introduce legislation with a view to amending the law relating to money-lending. 
     
     
      
       The question as to whether the law relating to moneylending in the Saorstat requires amendment or extension is at present under examination in my Department. It would at the moment be premature to express any opinion as to the conclusion to which such examination is likely to lead. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DISCIPLINARY ACTION IN PRISON SERVICE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice whether it is the practice when disciplinary action involving punishment is taken against members of the Prison Staff, to charge them in writing and to give them an opportunity of defending themselves. 
     
     
      
       In an ordinary case of breach of prison discipline the accused person is furnished with a statement in writing of the charge and the evidence upon which it is based.  In exceptional cases, however, where the prison authorities are satisfied that a person is not giving loyal and faithful service his appointment may be terminated without disclosing to him the grounds on which such decision was reached.  All such cases are submitted to me before action is taken. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ENFORCING OF LIQUOR LAW. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Justice when it is intended to put Part IV. of the Intoxicating Liquor Act, 1927 (which deals with the reduction of licences) into operation. 
     
     
      
       No steps can be taken towards the reduction of the number of licensed premises in the Saorstat until the next Annual Licensing Sessions.  It is intended to begin the process of reduction at these sessions, and the Garda Siochana will accordingly be instructed to make applications for reference orders under the Act in a suitable number of cases. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SUITABILITY OF MULLINGAR FACTORY. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he is aware that an up-to-date building in Mullingar, lately used as a hide and skin factory, is vacant, and whether he will have same inspected with a view to reporting as to its suitability as a meat, pork or other factory. 
     
     
      
       I am aware that there is a large fell-mongering establishment in Mullingar which has been closed for some years.  If any persons contemplate re-opening it as a meat or pork factory my Department will be glad to give them all the assistance it can, but if there were no prospective manufacturer to confer with, the suggested inspection would not serve any very useful purpose. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ADVERSE BALANCE OF TRADE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce if he will state the amount of the net adverse balance in the external trade of the Irish Free State allowing for invisible exports and imports, in the year 1926-27, giving the different items of invisible trade. 
     
     
      
       The particulars required for an estimate of the net balance of trade have in respect of some items to be obtained from sources outside my Department, and for the year 1927 are not yet available.  I would hope to be able to give such an estimate about the end of March next, but cannot undertake to do so. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - AFFORESTATION IN KERRY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture how much money for each of the years since 1922 has been expended on afforestation in the County of Kerry. 
     
     
      
       No funds during the period in question have been expended by the Department on afforestation in County Kerry, no land offered in that county having been regarded   as suitable for purchase for afforestation purposes.  Should any offers of suitable land be made to the Department, the fullest consideration will be given to the matter. 
     
     
      
       The Minister is aware that there are many thousands of acres of waste land in the County Kerry available for the purposes of afforestation. 
     
     
      
       Waste land is not necessarily suitable for afforestation. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CAUSE OF FOOT-AND-MOUTH OUTBREAK. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture whether it is intended to appoint a Commission to investigate and report on the causes of the present outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in County Wexford. 
     
     
      
       The Department have two superintending veterinary inspectors in charge of the operations in County Wexford.  Part of the duty of these officers and the staff of veterinarians acting with them is to investigate every clue to the cause of the outbreak, and there appears, therefore, no necessity for the appointment of a commission of inquiry. 
     
     
      
       In view of the various rumours that were broadcast in Wexford and other places as to the causes of the outbreak, will the Minister consider it necessary to hold an inquiry on oath? 
     
     
      
       Certainly not. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister say what is the result of the inquiries that have been held by the veterinary inspectors? 
     
     
      
       Any speculation as to the cause of foot-and-mouth disease is no more and no less than surmise. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - CLOSING OF CO. LIMERICK CREAMERY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Lands and Agriculture to state the considerations which have led to the closing down of the Golden Vein Dairy at Ballylanders; whether it   is the practice to close down modernly-equipped creameries without consulting the suppliers; whether he is aware that grave dissatisfaction exists among the suppliers as a result of this decision, and if he will take steps to have it reviewed. 
     
     
      
       Under the Creamery Reorganisation Scheme only one creamery, and that an auxiliary, is necessary at Ballylanders.  The creamery which it has been decided to retain for the purpose, i.e., that of the Condensed Milk Company, is regarded as more suitable than that of the Golden Vein Dairy Company, because (1) the power and equipment of the latter company's premises is considerably in excess of requirements, so that the cost of running it as an auxiliary would be much greater than in the other case; (2) the water supply of the selected premises is more satisfactory. 
       It would normally not be practicable, in connection with this large and complex scheme, to consult the individual suppliers in each instance; but any representations made on their behalf receive the fullest consideration before a decision is arrived at.  I am aware that dissatisfaction in regard to the arrangement made at Ballylanders has been expressed by some of the suppliers; but as an alternative creamery existed within a few hundred yards, I am not of opinion that any real cause for dissatisfaction on the ground of hardship to suppliers exists.  It is not proposed to review the decision in this case. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that the creamery which has been closed down is by far the more suitable of the two, in the opinion of the people of the district and the people from far around the district?  There is nobody in the area, not even the people who supply milk to the Condensed Milk Company, who believes that the Condensed Milk Company's premises are better premises than the premises closed down.  I think the Minister ought to take into consideration the opinion of the farmers of the area.  There were 3,100 gallons of milk supplied to the Golden Vein Dairy and only 1,760 gallons to the other creamery.  There is   a suspicion in the district and all around it that the decision arrived at is most unfair.  That suspicion exists in the other creamery districts as well. The decision, as I say, is considered most unfair and it is believed that the Department that would make a decision of the kind cannot be depended on to administer the scheme fairly.  I would ask the Minister to receive a deputation of those suppliers and discuss the matter with them and see whether very good reasons exist for the closing of the Golden Vein Dairy Company.  Let him convince them that there were good reasons. 
     
     
      
       The question is will the Minister receive a deputation? 
     
     
      
       I will receive a deputation. I am quite clear the Deputy is incorrectly informed when he says all the farmers are in favour of the Golden Vein Creamery.  Each of these two creameries remained open for three months and practically every day I received representations.  I got one representation one day on behalf of one creamery and another representation on behalf of the other creamery the next day.  The representations on both sides are about equal.  The fact of the matter is that there is very little between the creameries.  I admit that, but I would again draw the Deputy's attention to what I said in my reply to him.  &ldquo;The power and equipment of the latter company's premises is considerably in excess of requirements so that the cost of running it as an auxiliary would be much greater than in the other case.&rdquo;  Either of the creameries is good enough.  There is no doubt about that, but the cost of running in one case is less than the cost of running in the other.  That is all it comes to. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister satisfied that the majority of the farmers in that district are in favour of the creamery that is being retained?  It seems to me that as regards a scheme such as this consideration should be given to the views of the majority of the farmers in the district. 
     
     
     
      
       I do not know on which side the majority is.  I do not look at it from that point of view. 
     
     
      
       As far as the water supply of the Golden Vein Dairy Company is concerned&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy cannot debate the matter now. That is manifest. 
     
     
      
       I just want to show&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is only entitled to ask supplementary questions, though I have allowed him to make a speech. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Minister if he is aware that there is a publichouse in the yard? 
     
     
      
       The Minister has admitted that he is unaware on which side the majority is.  In view of that, will he take steps to ascertain on which side the majority is? 
     
     
      
       No.  We can only deal with political matters on the lines of majority rule&mdash;not economic matters. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ATHY OLD AGE PENSION CLAIM. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he can say why the old age pension has been refused to John Foynes, Meeting Lane, Athy, who was strongly recommended therefor by the Local Pensions Committee. 
     
     
      
       An appeal received in this case on the 6th instant has been referred for local investigation, and a decision will be given as early as possible. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health what steps he intends to take to ensure that citizens of the Saorstat, such as those employed in Belleek Potteries and the factories in Derry, who are at present paying towards National Health Insurance, shall be entitled to benefits under the scheme. 
     
     
     
      
       Under Part III. of the National Health Insurance (Irish Free State Reciprocal Arrangements) Order, 1924, a person who is resident in Saorstat Eireann and employed in Northern Ireland is treated as insurable in Saorstat Eireann by reason of employment in Northern Ireland.  The stamped cards surrendered will bear Northern Ireland stamps, but the society will get credit for the contributions and must treat the person in all respects as if having been employed in Saorstat Eireann.  The person is entitled to the normal benefits of insurance under the Insurance Acts as they apply to Saorstat Eireann, subject to the usual qualifying conditions being fulfilled. 
     
     
      
       Arising out of the Minister's reply, will he say if there is any reciprocal arrangement between the two Governments in respect to Unemployment Insurance? 
     
     
      
       That is a separate question, of which the Deputy must give notice. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - MANUFACTURE OF HOMESPUNS IN GAELTACHT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether any representations have been made to his Department with reference to the supply of homespun tweeds and flannel from the cottage workers of the Gaeltacht to institutions under his jurisdiction, and whether he is in a position to say what decision has been reached in the matter. 
     
     
      
       Do cuireadh an cheist seo fa bhraghaid na h-Aireachta so.  Ta breidin Dhuin na nGall ar an liosta oifigeamhail acht maidir le n'a cheannach, baineann an cheist sin leis na h-udarasanna aiteamhla agus le lucht ceannais na bhfunduireacht ata fe na gcuram. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - SCARIFF WORKHOUSE LAND. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is aware that the ground attached to the Scariff Workhouse   has, for several years past, been rented to workers in the village of Seariff for the raising of vegetables, etc.; if his Department proposes to continue sanction for this arrangement, and, if not, whether he will state the reasons for this decision. 
     
     
      
       The letting of lands of this nature is subject to the approval of the Oireachtas and to the other provisions of the State Lands Act, 1924.  No approval has been given in this case.  As regards the latter part of the question a public inquiry, of which due notice was given in the Press, was held last year to afford interested parties an opportunity of representing their views as to the manner in which the lands could best be disposed of in the public interest. No representations were made at that inquiry on behalf of the plotholders to which the Deputy refers.  The whole matter is now under consideration. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that if permission is not given to these plotholders to cultivate these plots within the next fortnight or so, the land will necessarily lie derelict this year?  Will the Minister say whether he has received representations from any quarter as to the suitability of this place for lawn tennis courts rather than for plots? 
     
     
      
       I am not aware of any such representations. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - HOUSING OF MENTAL HOSPITAL ATTENDANTS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health if he is aware that many of the attendants in the Grangegorman and other mental hospitals are at present badly housed; that the mental hospital authorities are prepared to inaugurate forthwith building schemes to provide houses for these attendants, provided the law is amended to enable the hospital authorities to benefit to the same extent under housing legislation as housing authorities and Public Utility Societies; and whether proposals for the necessary legislation will be introduced so as to permit the mental   hospital authorities to carry through such housing schemes. 
     
     
      
       Additional accommodation is necessary in some of the mental hospitals.  The provision of the necessary houses can be undertaken by the committees of the hospitals in the exercise of their ordinary powers, and loans for the purpose are available out of the Local Loans Fund. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ROSSMORE (CO. CORK) DISPENSARY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether the investigation into the suitability and adequacy of the dispensary arrangements in the Rossmore district of the Clonakilty Union area have been completed, and if so, what is the nature of the report. 
     
     
      
       The answer to the first part of the question is in the affirmative.  The West Cork Board of Public Assistance, at their meeting on the 13th instant, decided that a dispensary depot was not necessary.  Having regard to all the circumstances, it does not appear to be a case in which the Minister for Local Government could interfere with the decision of the local authority. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DONEGAL HOMESPUN INDUSTRY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether any report has been received from the Inspector recently appointed to reorganise home industries in the Gaeltacht with reference to the homespun industry in County Donegal; and whether he is able to give any indication of the lines on which work is in future to be carried on. 
     
     
      
       The Inspector has reported on the result of his investigations into the possibilities of the homespun industry in South Donegal.  Steps are being taken for introducing improved looms, and negotiations are in progress for setting up a carding and dyeing factory in the district. 
     
     
     
      
       Can the Minister say if the expert in the textile industry appointed by his Department for the express purpose of paying special attention to the homespun industry has yet visited the cottage workers with a view to giving them assistance? 
     
     
      
       He has only been appointed about a month.  He is making a rapid investigation through the whole of South Donegal, and has, I understand, visited cottage workers. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - VALENTIA HARBOUR LANDING FACILITIES. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether inquiries have been completed as to the provision of better landing facilities at Valentia Harbour for fishing vessels, and, if so, what action it is proposed to take in the matter. 
     
     
      
       The inquiries referred to in the question are still proceeding. The engineers are investigating the most suitable form of landing-place consistent with the lowest possible cost. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DIVISION OF CORK LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if the lands of Mrs. Tackwell, Aghada Hall, have been taken over by the Land Commission, and, if so, when, and between whom, they are to be divided. 
     
     
      
       Proceedings have been instituted under the provisions of the Land Act, 1923, for the acquisition of the lands of Aghada in this matter.  The price has been determined, but a scheme for the division of the lands has not yet been prepared. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - GALWAY UNEMPLOYMENT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state the total amount of money allocated to County Galway from the Unemployment Relief Grant: the schemes that have been sanctioned for the giving of this relief and the amount allocated in each case;   and whether, in view of the unparalleled distress existing in this constituency, he will consider the question of making further provision for the relief of unemployment there. 
     
     
      
       Of the amount allocated out of the Relief Schemes Vote to the Land Commission for expenditure, the amount available for expenditure in County Galway, including Connemara, is £8,500.  The list of works included in this sum is open for inspection by any interested party in the Land Commission. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KILMAINE CO-OPERATIVE FARMING SOCIETY. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries what is the present position of the acquisition by the Land Commission and division of the estate of the Kilmaine Co-operative Farming Society, Ltd., County Mayo (Record No. LB 12), and whether there is any hope that the division will take place in sufficient time to enable the tenants to till their holdings during the present season. 
     
     
      
       The lands held by the Kilmaine Co-operative Farming Society became vested in the Land Commission on 21st July, 1925, and are being dealt with in accordance with the provision of the Land Act, 1927.  The proceedings for the division of the lands are being expedited, but have not yet reached the stage at which it is possible to say if the divisions will be allocated in time for tillage this season. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - BALLINROBE TOLLS AND CUSTOMS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether he has received a request from the people of Ballinrobe asking that the Land Commission should acquire the Tolls and Customs of that town from the present landlord, and have same vested in a committee for the use and benefit of the town; and what steps he has taken, or proposes to take, to comply with the wishes of the people concerned. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission has no power to purchase Tolls and   Customs out of funds at its disposal for the purchase of lands under the Land Purchase Acts. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION OF ROSSCARBERY LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state what progress has been made with the proposal to acquire the lands of Burgatia, Rosscarbery, on the Starkey Estate, held by Mr. Thomas Kingston. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to are tenanted lands in the townlands of Burgatia and Creggane held by Mrs. Annie E. Kingston as judicial tenant on the estate of R.F. Starkie, which is being dealt with by the Land Commission under the Land Act, 1923. The Commissioners have retained this holding and served a notice on the tenant of their intention to resume it. An objection to the resumption has been lodged and will be heard by the Commissioners at an early date. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FOWLER ESTATE (CO. LONGFORD). 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries (a) if he will state the total amount paid for the Fowler Estate, Kilshruley, County Longford; the acreage and average price per acre; the amount granted for making ditches, and the amount expended thereon; whether the making of those ditches was let by private contract, and, if so, for what reason; whether this contract was made by statute measure or Irish measure, and whether the lands were let by statute or Irish measure; (b) whether there is a reserve of bog on this estate; whether it is let yearly and by whom, and what is the yearly income from this letting; what size farm without turbary rights on this estate the Land Commission considers economic; whether turbary was available on this estate, and, if so, whether the tenants received such rights, and if not, for what reason. 
     
     
      
       This estate of untenanted land, comprising 314 acres, statute measure, was purchased by the   Land Commission for £3,900.  A sum of £500 was sanctioned for improvements, of which £126 has been expended to date in making internal fences and £180 for fencing off roads, rights of way, etc.  All the internal fencing has been done by the allottees.  The external fencing has been done by contract in Irish measure, which is the usual practice.  The Commissioners considered this the most economical way of carrying out the work. 
       The new holdings created on this property varied, according to the circumstances of the allottees and the quality of the land, from 14 to 51 acres, statute. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DERELICT FARMS. 
     
      
       Asked the Minister for Fisheries whether, in view of the fact that the Land Commission do not publish for each county the names of defaulting annuitants, the Minister will consider the advisability of sending down an inspector to work in conjunction with a nominee of each county council with a view to discovering the financial position of the owners of derelict farms. 
     
     
      
       Lists of tenant purchasers who have made default in the payment of Land Purchase Annuities are furnished periodically to county councils. 
       Particulars of holdings to be sold by the Land Commission by public auction for non-payment of Land Purchase Annuities are furnished to the secretary of the county council in which the holding is situated. 
       As an officer of the Land Commission has no power to examine a defaulting tenant purchaser as to his financial position, no useful purpose would be served by adopting the suggestions made by the Deputy. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - FATAL MULLINGAR ACCIDENT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether he has completed his investigations into the circumstances which led to the death of Michael Daly, of Newdown, the Downs, Mullingar, who died as a   result of being run down by an Army tender at Windmill Hill, Mullingar, on the night of the 9th September, 1922, and whether it is intended to compensate his parents, whose principal support he was; and further, whether the Minister is aware of the alleged refusal to allow writs to be served on the driver of the lorry. 
     
     
      
       I regret that the inquiries which I have caused to be made in this case are not yet completed.  I hope to be in a position to communicate my decision to the Deputy shortly. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - DEATH OF PRISONER. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Defence whether an inquiry has been held into the circumstances attending the wounding of Patrick Mulrennan of Lisacul, Ballaghaderreen, on 6th October, 1922, while a prisoner in Custume Barracks, Athlone, and who died some weeks later at the Curragh; and, if so, what was the nature of the inquiry, and what were its findings; and whether he is prepared to recommend compensation to the widowed mother of the deceased prisoner. 
     
     
      
       I understand that a coroner's inquest was held to investigate the circumstances of Patrick Mulrennan's death.  The inquest appears to have been adjourned on three occasions and to have arrived at no definite finding. 
       I regret that a claim for compensation could not be entertained as a charge against Army funds. 
     
     
      
       Does the Minister assert that the State has no responsibility for the safe custody of its prisoners? 
     
     
      
       What I said was that I could not entertain a charge against Army funds. 
     
     
      
       Is the Minister aware that Patrick Mulrennan died of wounds as a result of a shot fired by an officer of the National Army in Custume Barracks, Athlone? 
     
     
      
       I understand that there was a state of mutiny there  &mdash;a state of active mutiny&mdash;and that this man and others were warned that unless they behaved themselves they would be shot. 
     
     
      
       That is not the fact.  I submit that this is a question that needs to be investigated.  It has been admitted that the coroner's inquest had to be adjourned on three occasions.  This man and his brother, who was killed at the time, were the main support of their widowed mother, who is now in a state of poverty.  I think, in view of the compensation that has been awarded to other people, and who are far less deserving, that this is a case for investigation, and that the Minister should not brush it aside so lightly. 
     
     
      
       In view of the unsatisfactory answer given by the Minister, I beg to give notice that I will raise this question on the motion for the Adjournment this evening. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - KILLARNEY POST OFFICE EXTENSION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs if he will state whether he intends carrying out the extension to Killarney Post Office &mdash;the extension of which was promised some time ago; and if so, when. 
     
     
      
       It is intended to provide additional accommodation for both official and public use at Killarney Post Office.  Considerable structural alterations are involved, and the work will be expedited as much as possible. 
     
   
   
     CEISTEANNA&mdash;QUESTIONS.   ORAL ANSWERS. - TOGHADH FO-MHAIGHISTIR PUIST. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       den Aire Puist agus Telegrafa (a) ce an fath ar toghadh duine gan Gaelhilg mar fo-mhaighistir puist i nDun Feannchaidhe le goirid; (b) ar glacadh fos leis an bhfear a toghadh; (c) an bhfuil fhios ag an Aire go bhfuil an ait sin i lar na Gaeltachta; agus (d) cad e an caingean ata ag an Roinn   Puist agus Telegrafa i dtaobh na Gaedhilge. 
     
     
      
       The policy of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs with regard to the use of Irish in the Post Office is as laid down in the White Paper recently laid before the House, containing the Government's decisions on the recommendations made by the Gaedhealtacht Commission.  In the case of the Dunfanaghy Sub-Post Office, it was not possible to appoint a Sub-Postmaster with a fluent knowledge of Irish, but the person appointed has been required, as a condition of appointment, to provide a competent Irish-speaking Assistant, and, pending the provision of such an Assistant, his appointment has not been confirmed. The Minister is aware that Dunfanaghy is situated within the Gaedhealtacht area.  Only 32 per cent. of the inhabitants of the District Electoral Division of Dunfanaghy are, however, Irish-speaking. 
     
     
      
       I should like to ask the Parliamentary Secretary was there not an applicant for the post who was fully qualified both as to general education and as to a knowledge of Irish, and if that is so, why was not such a person appointed? 
     
     
      
       There was an applicant who was fully qualified in regard to a knowledge of Irish, but this candidate was not considered fully qualified in regard to other essential requirements for the position of Sub-Postmaster. 
     
     
      
       As I am not satisfied with the Parliamentary Secretary's answer, I should like to raise the question on the Adjournment. A person who was a fully qualified National teacher should be able to conduct a sub-post office. 
     
     
      
       Might I ask the Parliamentary Secretary if he is aware that very grave dissatisfaction exists amongst the people of County Donegal in regard to the filling of this appointment, and that the people of Donegal rightly look upon it as an indication of the insincerity of the Government's   attitude in regard to the recommendations of the Gaeltacht Commission? 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary inform the House what were the necessary qualifications which this man lacked? 
     
     
      
       In reply to Deputy Cassidy's supplementary question, I understand that there was a considerable amount of dissatisfaction expressed at this appointment.  There has also been a considerable amount of satisfaction expressed by others.  It is not for me to say whether the amount of satisfaction is greater than the amount of dissatisfaction.  With regard to Deputy Cooney's supplementary question, the Deputy must recognise that there must be other requirements in regard to the appointment of a sub-postmaster besides a knowledge of Irish.  There are other requirements necessary, and we consider that the other candidate had not the special requirements in regard to other qualifications which were necessary. 
     
     
      
       We are all anxious to know what the other qualifications were. 
     
     
      
       Is the Parliamentary Secretary aware that if the people of Dunfanaghy desire to exercise their rights to speak exclusively in Irish, it is going to be impossible for this man to carry out his duties and in view of that will he reconsider the decision and give the appointment to a person who is qualified both in regard to a knowledge of Irish and other requirements? 
     
     
      
       We have made a definite condition that the sub-postmaster must appoint a person fully qualified in regard to a knowledge of Irish.  It is not our intention to confirm the appointment until that condition is satisfied. 
     
     
      
       Will the Parliamentary Secretary also make a condition that the person appointed must be able to receive and send messages in Irish on the telegraphic instruments? 
     
     
      
       The sub-postmaster appointed is an expert telegraphist. I have no information that   the other person knows anything about the telegraph instrument. 
     
     
      
       This question cannot be raised on the Adjournment because notice has been already given by Deputy O'Dowd of another matter.  Only one matter can be raised on the Adjournment. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE NOTICE QUESTION. 
     D'fhiafruigh 
     
      
       de Uachtaran na hArd-Chomhairle cathain a tabharfar la iomlan sa Dail chun polasai an Rialtais ar Thuarasgabhail Choimisiun na Gaeltachta do chur fe dhiospoireacht. 
     
     
      
       If the Deputy will table a motion dealing with this matter, I am prepared to arrange a date for its discussion. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS. - PILOTAGE ORDER CONFIRMATION (No. 2) BILL, 1927&mdash;COMMITTEE STAGE. 
     Bill passed through Committee without amendment. 
     Report Stage ordered for Wednesday, 29th February. 
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS. - MOTION ON OLD AGE PENSIONS. 
     
      
       May I ask the President when it is proposed to take the discussion on Deputy Morrissey's motion? 
     
     
     
      
       After questions this day week.  I have not been able to see Deputy Morrissey, but I understood there was general agreement.  I would be very agreeable to take the motion this day week. 
     
     
      
       Is it the intention of the President to let the discussion be proceeded with until it finishes? 
     
     
      
       I presume it is. 
     
     
      
       Without interruption? 
     
     
      
       I cannot guarantee that. 
     
     
      
       It is to be understood that &ldquo;after questions next Wednesday&rdquo; means as the first opposed business.  There may be other business before that. 
     
     
      
       When will the President take number 12 on the Order Paper, that is, the motion with regard to a Select Committee in connection with claims arising out of the civil war? 
     
     
      
       As regards items 10, 12 and 13, they come on in the ordinary course in private members' time.  I am not prepared to give Government time for the consideration of these. 
     
     
      
       Would the President name a day when he would be prepared to take this motion? 
     
     
      
       I would take it to-night if the Deputy wishes. 
     
     
      
       Private members' business comes on at 7 o'clock this evening.  There is one motion down in the name of Deputy Lemass, and that has precedence because of the order in which it was handed in. 
     
     
      
       I am willing to take 10 and 12 to-night if the Deputy agrees. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE BUSINESS. - REPORT OF THE JOINT RESTAURANT COMMITTEE. 
     Ordered: That the Report of the Joint Restaurant Committee be laid upon the table, and be printed and circulated. 
   
   
     SEANAD EIREANN&mdash;CONSTITUTION AND POWERS OF, AND METHODS OF ELECTION. - MESSAGES FROM THE SEANAD. 
     
        The following Message was received from the Seanad:&mdash; 
     Seanad Eireann has passed the following Resolution, in which the concurrence of Dail Eireann is desired:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;That it is expedient that a Joint Committee consisting of five members of the Dail and five members of the Seanad, with the Chairman of each House ex officio, be set up to consider and report on the changes, if any, necessary in the constitution and powers of, and methods of election to Seanad Eireann: and that a Message be sent to the Dail requesting its concurrence in this Resolution.&rdquo; 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;Go n-aontuionn an Dail leis an Seanad ina Run a cuireadh in uil don Dail an 15adh la d'Fheabhra.  Go bhfuil se oiriunach Co-Choiste, ar a mbeidh cuigear ball den Dail agus cuigear ball den tSeanad, maraon le Ceann Comhairle na Dala agus Cathaoirleach an tSeanaid mar bhaill ex-officio, do bhunu chun breithniu do dheanamh agus tuairisc do thabhairt ar na hatharuithe is ga a dheanamh, mas ga aon cheann, ar cho-dheanamh agus ar chomhachta Sheanad Eireann agus ar na modhanna toghachain chun Seanad Eireann. 
       &ldquo;That the Dail concurs with the Seanad in their Resolution communicated to the Dail on 15th day of February: That it is expedient that a Joint Committee consisting of five members of the Dail and five members of the Seanad, with the Chairman of each House ex-officio, be set up to consider and report on the changes, if any, necessary in the constitution and powers of, and methods of election to Seanad Eireann.&rdquo; 
     
     I move the motion simply because the Seanad passed the Message upon the Order Paper.  The motion was in the particular form in which it comes   to us now.  The Committee of Selection may find a difficulty in selecting five members for this purpose.  They may not find five a suitable number.  It is quite possible they will.  Should they not find five a suitable number they would have to get the figure changed by the House. 
     The Government's intention was to introduce legislation which it has prepared dealing with certain proposals with regard to the Seanad elections. In view, however, of the resolution passed by the Seanad the Government is prepared to support the setting up of this Committee.  The discussion in the Seanad showed that those who moved the resolution desired that the deliberations of this Committee should not be prejudiced by any statement of Government policy with regard to the Seanad.  In that respect the Government is prepared to meet the Seanad. There is, however, a point of urgency in the matter.  The Government is responsible for seeing that the administrative machinery will not be given work to do that it is not able to do in time.  It is responsible for the finance of the country and it is responsible for ordering the business of the House, and as an election is due to take place this year for the Seanad the element of time enters into it.  The Government is of opinion that while it is not desirous in any way of prejudicing the deliberations of the Committee, it is very desirable, to their minds on the other hand, that long-drawn-out deliberations by a Committee should not prejudice the other considerations involved in the matter. 
     The date, 31st of March, was suggested in the Seanad as a date by which the Committee might at least be able to report on the method of election.  A Committee discussing the powers of the Seanad itself, its constitution and method of election might very well sit for a number of months, but in view of the urgency of the question of the election it was thought that the Committee should direct its particular attention to that in the very beginning. It was suggested in the Seanad that they should report on that by the 31st of March.  That was not accepted by the Seanad. 
     
        I personally feel that such a Committee should be able to report by the 17th April, say by the time that the Dail would re-assemble after the Easter recess.  I expect it would re-assemble about the 17th April.  I feel that the Committee should be able to report by that time, at least on the question of election.  I do say that there is a question of urgency with regard to the method of election and the importance of reporting at the earliest possible moment on that particular point. 
     
      
       We are against the setting up of this particular Committee. We think that the proper thing to do is to end the Senate and not to attempt to mend it.  It is costly, and we do not see any useful function that it really serves. 
     
     
      
       I would like to support the attitude adopted by the leader of this Party, and to urge the House to vote against the setting up of this Committee, the purpose of which is obviously to try to put some life into a moribund body.  I think that the public feeling throughout the country is very strongly in favour of the abolition of the Senate, not to patch it up in a way so as to give it even a semblance of reality.  It is a body created, as well as know, not to improve the machinery of administration in this country, but to give political power to a certain class that could not get that power if they had to go before the people at a free election and get the people to vote them into office.  The Senate was set up to put a certain section of the community into a position where they could influence the course of legislation&mdash;a section of the community that was always hostile to the interests of Irish nationalism, and that was always hostile to the Irish nation. And we think that this bulwark of imperialism should be abolished by the people's representatives on the first available opportunity that they get. 
     
     The Constitution says that the Senate is to be constituted with special reference to the necessity for arranging for the representation of important interests and institutions in the country. Some argument might be put forward for the establishment of a Second   House that would deal exclusively with economic matters, but the House should be composed of representatives of the people who count in this country&mdash;the farmers, the manufacturers and the working classes&mdash;and not of traders and importers and the like.  It should be representative of the Nationalist element and not the Imperialist element.  The stock argument in favour of a Second House is that it acts as a brake on hasty legislation, and that it acts as a cooling chamber.  Has the Senate in this country acted as a brake on hasty legislation or as a cooling chamber?  Have they not shown themselves more liable to take a panicky course even than this House? They have permitted themselves to be stampeded any time the Executive Council wanted to stampede them. They are like a tame dog, prepared to do anything the Executive Council orders them to do, and this is the farce which it is proposed now to rejuvenate at a cost to the State of over £30,000 a year.  I should like to hear whatever arguments can be advanced in favour of continuing it.  None have been submitted here.  We are told that the Government has legislation ready to introduce to amend the system of election. We should like to have some indication as to what the change to be effected in the system of election is to be&mdash;what the Government has in mind in the matter.  We have at present a nondemocratic system of nomination coupled with a semi-democratic system of election.  Is it proposed to abolish the popular vote in order to ensure that no Nationalist, no matter how hard he may try, can possibly get a seat in that Assembly?  We have seen the suggestions in the papers that such a course is to be adopted&mdash;that the Government is going to do everything possible to shirk anything in the nature of a public vote for that Assembly.  We are told that the Committee might sit for a number of months considering the matter.  It could sit for ever without effecting any useful results, unless it brought in the one report that the people of Ireland would like to see it bring in, namely, one in favour of the total abolition of the institution. 
     
     
      
       I do not think that it can do very much harm to set up this committee.  As far as I could follow Deputy Lemass, his main objection is to the constitution of the Senate, and this committee will consider any changes that may be necessary, not only in the method of election, but in its constitution and powers.  We have been promised legislation by the Government.  I do not know whether it was indicated that this legislation would deal exclusively with the method of election, or whether it would deal with the constitution and powers of the Senate, but it would be well if this House, through a committee of this kind, had an opportunity of examining the question and of reporting to the House.  The report might be that the Senate was a superfluous body and was not necessary in our Constitution.  It is quite possible that that might be its report.  I certainly do not think any harm will be done by setting up this committee, and it would be advisable that we should have a report from a joint committee of this kind as to any changes that may be necessary in the Constitution.  It does not follow that this House is going to accept the report of any such committee. 
     
     
      
       I would have preferred in connection with the two speeches that we heard a moment ago if we had had some comparison between the Senate here and the Senate of some other country; if we had had the subject dealt with in a sensible, businesslike way, and a comparison made to see what was the constitutional position of the Senate in any other country, what were the results of a Second Chamber in other countries, and what the idea of the two Deputies who have spoken was of what a Senate should be. 
     
     
      
       Should not be. 
     
     
      
       I did not interrupt either of the Deputies.  I was hoping that I would have learned something, but I have learned nothing, and, I find, have only wasted my time. The position with regard to a Second Chamber is that it has been found from experience in other countries to have been rather useful.  To talk as if   nationality only exuded from the Benches opposite, to try to mislead the public outside that they are the only real fountains of nationality&mdash; every sensible person in the country knows that that is not so.  I know two members of the Senate who did more national and useful work during the whole struggle, who would probably be tabled as Imperialists&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Than you did. 
     
     
      
       &mdash;than all the members on that side of the House did for Sinn Fein, and I can give Deputy Lemass or anybody else proof of it. The label which they try to affix to certain people can only be a true label when it is proved to be so, and neither of the Deputies has done that.  The Deputies have not examined the position in other countries to see whether or not countries governed by a single Chamber are better governed; whether their legislation is more perfect.  It happens that we have that information. This motion deals with a good deal of what Deputy Lemass said, but it does not deal with what Deputy de Valera said, because he simply wants to do away with the Senate.  I suppose he has never bothered his head to examine what is its purpose&mdash;what is the purpose of any Second Chamber in any country.  It is part of the Constitution. The Constitution was adopted here after a very considerable amount of time had been spent in its consideration. 
     
     
      
       In London. 
     
     
      
       Here in this House, when the Deputy was probably declaring to somebody outside that he would never enter it. 
     
     
      
       The Constitution was considered in London. 
     
     
      
       It was considered in this House and passed by this House and made law by this House when, as I say, the Deputy was probably explaining to somebody outside that he would never come into it. Having had it for five years, this is the time to examine it.  To say that it is   costing £30,000 per annum is no reason why it should be done away with. Money that we would be all glad to save is very well spent upon certain things.  If we can better the institution by reason of this motion, let us have it.  I did not hear either of the Deputies saying that their Party was not going to appoint any members to attend this Committee.  We are in the initial stages with regard to this very important system of government for the country.  Except from protagonists on the other side, who seek to show great savings, there has been no outcry against the Senate&mdash;none whatever. There were on the original Senate three or four members of a Conference which sat here in Dublin as far back as 1902 and did very useful work that has been praised by many people, and that, in my view, was mainly responsible for the great national feeling and movement which, according to some people, only started in 1916, but which really started a very long time before that. 
     
     
      
       Is a place in the Senate to be the method of compensation for them? 
     
     
      
       I cannot hear the Deputy. 
     
     
      
       It does not matter what the Deputy said.  It must be plain that on this motion to appoint a Committee to discuss certain matters in connection with the Senate we cannot debate the whole question of whether there ought or ought not to be in an ideal Constitution, or in the Constitution of this country, a Second Chamber, although it is quite relevant and proper for a Deputy to say that he is against this motion because he thinks there ought not to be any Senate.  That is quite relevant and proper, but we cannot roam over the general question as to whether there ought or ought not to be a Senate. That must arise upon some proceedings to amend existing legislation as regards procedure for a Senate. 
       Question put. 
     
     
       
        The Dail divided: Ta, 83; Nil, 49. 
     Ta 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             William P. Aird. Ernest Henry Alton. Richard Anthony. James Walter Beckett. George Cecil Bennett. Ernest Blythe. Seamus A. Bourke. Michael Brennan. Henry Broderick. Sean Brodrick. John Joseph Byrne. Edmund Carey. Archie J. Cassidy. Patrick Clancy. James Coburn. John James Cole. Mrs. Margt. Collins-O'Driscoll. Hugh Colohan. Martin Conlan. Michael P. Connolly. Bryan Ricco Cooper. Richard Corish. William T. Cosgrave. Sir James Craig. James Crowley. John Daly. William Davin. Michael Davis. Peter De Loughrey. James N. Dolan. Edward Doyle. Peadar Sean Doyle. James Dwyer. Osmond Thos. Grattan Esmonde. James Everett. Desmond Fitzgerald. James Fitzgerald-Kenney. John Good. Denis J. Gorey. Alexander Haslett. John J. Hassett. Michael R. Heffernan. 
             John Henigan. Mark Henry. Patrick Hogan (Clare). Patrick Hogan (Galway). Richard Holohan. Michael Jordan. Patrick Michael Kelly. Myles Keogh. Hugh Alexander Law. Patrick Leonard. Finian Lynch. Arthur Patrick Mathews. Martin McDonogh. Michael Og McFadden. Patrick McGilligan. Joseph W. Mongan. Richard Mulcahy. James E. Murphy. Timothy Joseph Murphy. James Sproule Myles. Martin Michael Nally. John Thomas Nolan. Richard O'Connell. Thomas J. O'Connell. Bartholomew O'Connor. Timothy Joseph O'Donovan. John F. O'Hanlon. Daniel O'Leary. Dermot Gun O'Mahony. John J. O'Reilly. Gearoid O'Sullivan. John Marcus O'Sullivan. Patrick Reynolds. Martin Roddy. Patrick W. Shaw. Timothy Sheehy (West Cork). William Edward Thrift. Michael Tierney. Daniel Vaughan. Vincent Joseph White. George Wolfe.  
           
         
       
     
     Nil 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             Denis Allen Neal Blaney. Gerald Boland. Patrick Boland. Daniel Bourke. Robert Briscoe. Daniel Buckley. Frank Carney. Frank Carty. Michael Clery. James Colbert. Eamon Cooney. Dan Corkery. Martin John Corry. Tadgh Crowley. Thomas Derrig. Eamon De Valera. Frank Fahy. Andrew Fogarty. Patrick J. Gorry. John Goulding. Sean Hayes. Samuel Holt. Patrick Houlihan. Stephen Jordan. 
             Michael Joseph Kennedy. William R. Kent. Frank Kerlin. James Joseph Killane Mark Killelea. Michael Kilroy. Sean F. Lemass. Patrick John Little. Thomas McEllistrim. Seamus Moore. Thomas Mullins. Patrick Joseph O'Dowd. Sean T. O'Kelly. William O'Leary. Matthew O'Reilly. Thomas O'Reilly. Thomas P. Powell. Patrick J. Ruttledge. James Ryan. Martin Sexton. Timothy Sheehy (Tipperary). Patrick Smith. Richard Walsh. Francis C. Ward.  
           
         
       
     
     Tellers: Ta, Deputies P.S. Doyle, B. O'Connor.  Nil, G. Boland, P.J. Little. 
     
        Motion declared carried. 
     Ordered: That a Message be sent to the Seanad accordingly. 
   
   
     SEANAD EIREANN&mdash;CONSTITUTION AND POWERS OF, AND METHODS OF ELECTION. - QUESTION ON THE ADJOURNMENT. 
     
      
       With regard to the matter to be raised on the adjournment, it has been arranged that it is to be by Proinnsias O Fathaigh on a question arising out of Question No. 40 on to-day's Order Paper. 
     
   
   
     SEANAD EIREANN&mdash;CONSTITUTION AND POWERS OF, AND METHODS OF ELECTION. - SUPPLEMENTARY ESTIMATES&mdash;VOTES 64 AND 52. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       Go dtugaidh an Dail cead chun go dtabharfai isteach an Meastachain Breise seo leanas i gcoir seirbhise na bliana dar crioch an 31adh la de Mharta.  1928, eadhon:&mdash; 
       Votanna a 64&mdash;An t-Arm; a 52 (Oifig an Aire Tailte agus Talmhaiochta). 
       That leave be given by the Dail to introduce the following Supplementary Estimates for the service of the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1928:&mdash; 
       Votes No. 64&mdash;Army; 52 (Office of the Minister for Lands and Agriculture). 
       Leave granted.  To be considered on Thursday, 23rd February. 
     
   
   
     SEANAD EIREANN&mdash;CONSTITUTION AND POWERS OF, AND METHODS OF ELECTION. - ARTERIAL DRAINAGE (MINOR SCHEMES) BILL, 1928&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       I beg to move the Second Reading of the Arterial Drainage (Minor Schemes) Bill, 1928.  The effect of this Bill will be to give very extended powers to the county councils to carry out drainage works.  Since the passing of the Local Government Act, 1898, the tendency has been to make   the county council more and more the body responsible in the country for drainage.  Under old Navigation Acts, between 1842 and 1857, certain trustees were set up over drainage, and under Drainage Acts and Improvement of Lands (Ireland) Acts, between 1863 and 1892, Drainage Boards were set up. At the time that the Local Government Act of 1898 was passed, it was clear that a big number of these trustees and boards were not carrying out their drainage duties, and the Local Government Act of 1898 gave power, subject to the Local Government Board in Dublin, for the transfer of the functions of these trustees and boards to any particular county council.  Subsequent to 1922 two Acts dealing with general drainage were passed here.  The first was the Drainage (Maintenance) Act of 1924, and the next was the Arterial Drainage Act of 1925.  Both of these Acts tended more to transfer drainage to the county councils.  The Land Act of 1925 also gave powers, subject to the consent of the Minister for Local Government and Public Health, by which the Land Commission could transfer to the county councils certain drainage powers.  By 1924 it was clear that the old boards and trustees were not functioning. As a matter of fact, the total number of bodies of trustees that came into existence altogether was 115.  At present only 63 are functioning; twenty-eight are not functioning, and twenty-four, or practically one-fifth, have been transferred to the county councils.  Of the number of drainage boards set up between 1863 and 1892, thirty-five are functioning, seven are not, and twenty-one, or one-third, have been transferred to the county councils. Since the passing of the Act of 1924, in all sixteen councils have become involved in the transfer of drainage powers; so that gradually the county councils are shouldering a very big responsibility for drainage and will ultimately be the drainage authorities throughout the country. 
     
     The present Bill will enable a body of three rated occupiers, or three persons in respect of whom land is held in trust or for their benefit, to make an appeal to the county council to have a drainage work carried out, and the   county council will have power, with the assistance of a Government grant of one-fifth of the total cost&mdash;which total must not exceed more than £1,000, or it cannot come under this Bill&mdash;to carry out a scheme.  The Government will provide a grant of one-fifth of the total cost, and the county council can give a contribution. There will be an arrangement made by which the county councils can borrow for the carrying out of the work and impose the residue of the cost of the scheme by means of a drainage rate on the owners of the benefited land.  The procedure under the Bill will be somewhat like this: Persons applying to have a drainage scheme carried out will have to make application to the county council, giving general particulars of the scheme and a statement of the approximate cost.  It will be mandatory on the county council to get, through their county surveyor, a general report upon the proposal and a statement as to its approximate cost.  When they have the information before them, the county council will decide whether to go on with the scheme or not.  If they decide to go on with the scheme, they have to instruct their county surveyor, or should he perhaps not have the necessary qualifications or the necessary time, they will have to empower and instruct an engineer, employed for the purpose, to prepare a full scheme. When the full scheme is prepared, the usual notice to the public will be given that a particular scheme has been prepared, and facilities will be given to all interested for examining it.  In fact, all the rated occupiers in the area that the scheme will cover and all persons from whom it may be proposed to acquire land, either compulsorily or by agreement, will be served with a special notice that such land forms part of the scheme.  If persons who control half the valuation of the area concerned decide that they do not want the scheme, then it falls, and in so far as there has been cost in connection with the preparation of the scheme, that cost is borne by the county council. Where more than half the valuation of the area is held by persons who desire the scheme to go on, those who have serious objections to it will be given   an opportunity of making their case before a county council meeting and of urging their objections to the scheme. 
     If, after hearing these objections, the county council decides to confirm the scheme, then it is confirmed, and, in order to avoid litigation, a clause is introduced whereby, when a county council confirms a scheme, it shall be regarded as one that is proper to be carried out under the Bill.  The county council will be given powers to acquire land compulsorily if necessary, and these are powers with which local bodies are in general familiar, but a special change is made in connection with this Bill.  Hitherto, when local bodies desired to acquire land compulsorily, a provisional order has had to be issued by the Minister for Local Government.  That takes time and involves inquiry which may be costly. That provision is being dispensed with in this Bill, so that if a county council decides that it wants to acquire land compulsorily, and, having heard objections to that procedure, the council still decides to go on with the scheme, it can acquire land compulsorily without the necessity or delay of having a provisional order issued. 
     There are general arrangements made by which arbitration can take place in such cases.  There are powers in the Bill, however, which enable a county council to enter on land and carry out work there and pay compensation for that entrance, thus relieving in many cases the necessity for acquiring land compulsorily.  When a council has confirmed a scheme, there is machinery by which its county surveyor can proceed to carry out the scheme, and when it is carried out the council will employ a land surveyor to examine the work carried out and give a certificate, in the first place, of the completion of the scheme; in the second place, of the total cost, and, in the third place, of the extent to which the different lands may be regarded as having benefited as a result of the improvements carried out.  The assessment of the extent to which the lands have benefited will be the basis on which the drainage rate will be assessed on the different occupiers. 
     The county council will be completely free to carry on the work, and   the only way in which the Minister for Local Government will enter into the matter is in cases where there are joint committees of two county councils involved in a scheme and where ordinarily that work would be carried out by a county council or committee.  In such cases the work will be carried out by the joint committee, and in case of a dispute between the two councils on any matter connected with the scheme, principally in connection with the allocation of the cost while the scheme is in progress, the Minister for Local Government may come in to arbitrate. The Minister will also come into the matter in giving permission to borrow and also in framing a code which will give particulars of the lines on which the drainage scheme is to be drawn up, and also particulars of the times for hearing appeals by people who object to the scheme, and also in connection with the forms for use respecting general procedure. 
     With the exception of cases of that particular kind, a county council accepts a scheme, carries it out, and furnishes certification of such scheme without the interference of any central authority here.  The object of that is that these schemes, being small, will probably be large in number and could not conveniently be dealt with centrally. There is a desire to simplify processes and to get over the delay that inevitably comes about where a large number of cases have to be dealt with by a central body, so that the county council will have a pretty free hand to go ahead with small drainage works. There is an element of experiment in the proposal and the fixing of £1,000 as the limit of cost of a scheme under this Bill is also experimental.  The period for which the Bill is intended to run is five years, mainly for the purpose of enabling us to see what the results under the Bill will be for that period.  There are provisions in the Bill by which drainage schemes that are proposed through the county councils to the Board of Works under the Arterial Drainage Act, 1925, may, if their anticipated cost is less than £1,000, be transferred to the operations of this particular Bill and vice versa. 
     With regard to the finance of the   Bill, one other point requires to be stated.  When a scheme is made out for a county council, the anticipated total cost of the drainage work will have to be shown, and if, in the actual working out of the scheme, the cost is greater than that, the difference between the anticipated cost as stated in the scheme and the actual cost is called in this Bill the excess liability.  Suppose the work is estimated to cost £900 but the actual cost works out at £1,050, the Government grant on the £900 would be £180, leaving, in the event of the county council making no contribution towards the scheme, £720 to be made up by the drainage rate.  The occupiers understanding in the beginning that they are only to be responsible for £720, the Bill relieves them of any responsibility of being made liable to pay more in case the cost of the work is more than that anticipated, and the county council itself will be responsible for paying the amount, namely, the excess liability, which is the difference between the proposed cost and the actual cost of the scheme. 
     If the total cost of the scheme does not go above £1,000 the Government grant of one-fifth will extend to that portion of the excess cost which is less than £1,000.  The Bill, as I say, gives very large powers to the county councils. It is experimental in order to see what class of work will be done by the councils.  It does not throw any serious burden on the technical officials of the county councils because the county surveyors as well as the assistant county surveyors in many cases will have the necessary qualifications. 
     Question proposed&mdash;&ldquo;That the Bill be now read a Second Time.&rdquo; 
     
      
       It is not our intention to oppose the principle of this Bill.  There are, however, certain amendments which I think will be brought in on the Committee Stage, relating particularly to the State contribution towards the cost of drainage schemes, which we consider to be inadequate. 
     
     
      
       I am in favour of the general principle of this Bill.  Drainage work is work which is of very great national importance.   That, I think, will be generally agreed. There is, however, just one point, which I think it is well to raise at this stage in view of what the Minister stated in his opening remarks.  He said that the tendency now was to make the county councils responsible generally for drainage work, and that that tendency has grown from the fact that boards and trustees generally had neglected their work and were not carrying out their duties.  In principle that seems to be a commendable change, but I wonder what machinery there will be available, or whether it is proposed that there will be any machinery, in case a county council refuses to carry out the work of drainage or neglects to do so?  Does the Minister suggest any way of getting a county council to do this work?  I am raising this point because the county council of Mayo has had a drainage scheme before it for quite a considerable time under the Arterial Drainage Act, and it has done nothing so far to put the scheme into operation.  I understand the scheme has been examined by the council's engineers and approved of by the Board of Works.  We have in Mayo a river, the Roe, which is almost as famous as the Barrow or the Owenmore.  Although the scheme has been approved, I understand that the county council in Mayo has refused to make any move towards carrying out the work.  We have, I believe, six representatives of the council in this House, three on one side and three on the other, and some of them might give the House information on this matter.  I would like to know whether it rests entirely with the county council to carry out drainage work under this Bill, and the Arterial Drainage Act. 
     
     
      
       I have listened with interest to Deputy O'Connell.  He seemed to talk about a matter of which apparently he has no knowledge, because he stated that the county council of Mayo has refused to carry out a drainage scheme, whereas the facts are that the council has, times out of number, tried to get the Board of Works to carry out the drainage scheme in Mayo.  If Deputy O'Connell had inquired into this matter and secured the necessary information, I do not think   he would have made the statement that he did.  I am surprised that the Deputy would not have taken a greater interest in the affairs of his constituents. 
     
     
      
       Is the drainage work being carried out? 
     
     
      
       Deputy O'Connell stated that Mayo County Council had declined to carry out this scheme.  I repeat that the county council has made several appeals to the Board of Works on this matter.  The last assurance the council got was secured by me in reply to a wire I sent from Crossmolina when that town was flooded, to the effect that they would let us have a definite statement by the end of the year.  The county council has accepted responsibility in this matter, and I regret that Deputy O'Connell has exposed himself to a certain amount of criticism by his own constituents by making a statement which he would not have made if he had acquainted himself of the facts. 
     
     
      
       The work has not been carried out, and I hope we will be able to fix the blame on somebody. 
     
     
      
       You stated that the Mayo County Council has refused to carry out the scheme.  Do you still adhere to that statement? 
     
     
      
       This is not a cross-examination. 
     
     
      
       I think the proposals under this Bill are satisfactory, inasmuch as the public are afforded every opportunity of protecting themselves at every stage.  If they think a scheme is not going to be beneficial they can raise their objection at the proper time and place.  That is an admirable provision. I consider the Minister has taken a step in the right direction.  It has been suggested that he has been trying to deprive the local bodies of authority in their own affairs.  He is trying to relieve them of a certain amount of red tape that they had heretofore. Instead of restricting local bodies he is removing barriers against their doing what they may desire. 
     
     
     
      
       Like other speakers, I have already discussed this Bill. I am inclined to favour it, although my belief is thot it will not achieve very much, but as an experiment it will probably be useful. The chief fault I would find with it would be that it limits the amount that could be spent on any scheme to the small sum of £1,000.  You will not find many county councils anxious to take up schemes of such a small nature. Probably some individuals whose lands are or have been inundated will be anxious for a drainage scheme in one area in a county, and similar people in another area, but none of them will have sufficient influence or weight with the county council to get a scheme carried out.  They will be small areas and without sufficient influence to get their schemes adopted.  It appears to me that in dealing with these small schemes, or attempting to deal with them, or encouraging county councils to do so, that before the larger question of the drainage of some of the big rivers of the country, and some of those in particular which have within the last few years caused inundations in wide areas, are dealt with, or an attempt, at any rate, made to alleviate the troubles caused by the flooding of these rivers, it will not help if we tackle these smaller areas.  If we began at the other end we might have some hope&mdash;having rid ourselves of the larger nuisance&mdash;that later the county councils, through interested individuals, could be induced to undertake the work of draining the smaller areas. There is not enough inducement in the sum offered&mdash;one-fifth of the total expenditure on these schemes&mdash;to get the county councils to undertake such work. 
     
     That is an opinion which may be proved false, and I hope it will; and I hope that the result of this experiment, which I think is a commendable one, will prove that the county councils are anxious to take up this work at the instance of the people whose lands have suffered from flooding.  But I am afraid that it will not turn out so.  I think that the Minister is to be commended for taking, as far as he has done so, this work out of the hands of these trustees and drainage boards.  It is, I   think, a wise and a progressive policy that should be followed in other directions, that is, taking this out of separate departments and giving control to one central body.  The county council is the proper body, in my opinion, and if they do not do their work, as Deputy O'Connell has suggested, well, then, the people whose lands suffer have their remedy.  They can, when the time for election comes, elect men on their county councils to represent them who will carry out their wishes.  I do not at the moment see what other means could be adopted to force the county councils unless in matters that would be of wider importance than these small schemes.  I do not know if it is possible at this stage to suggest an amendment to Section 14 of the Bill which fixes the amount of the cost to be contributed from State funds at one-fifth. Perhaps you, A Chinn Comhairle, would inform me if it would be possible to give notice that the sum be two-fifths instead of one-fifth? 
     
      
       The Deputy can, of course, take exception to the section of the Bill which fixes the contribution from State funds at one-fifth, but under the Standing Orders no Deputy other than a member of the Executive Council can move for what is called a charge upon the public funds. Similarly, when in Committee on this Bill it will not be possible for a Deputy other than a member of the Executive Council to move to increase the grant as set out under Section 14 of the Bill. When the Bill has received a Second Reading a Money Resolution will be introduced, which I have not seen but which, I presume, will be in the same form as sub-section (1) of Section 14. On that Money Resolution exception can be taken to the amount of the grant, but the Money Resolution having been carried will govern the proceedings in Committee, and it will not be possible for anybody after that to move to increase the amount of the State contribution.  The Standing Order on this matter is 101. 
     
     
      
       That being so, we must only wait until that Money Resolution is introduced.  In the meantime,   I think the Bill might well be let go, as it is, in my opinion at any rate, an important attempt to improve the machinery for carrying out arterial drainage in the country.  It will perhaps, simplify matters and help to get over the interminable delay that holds up work of this kind.  It is an experiment worth trying, but I am not favourably impressed with the possibilities that it will materially improve the drainage throughout the country within the next five years. 
     
     
      
       I welcome this Bill, though it is a small Bill.  I welcome it as having in it great possibilities of being of great advantage to the country.  It is not to be presumed altogether that the entire damage to the land of the country by flooding is done by the overflow of the big rivers.  There is an incalculable amount of damage done in the country through the overflow of small rivers.  I do not know if there is not more damage done by the small rivers than even by the big rivers.  People have been bearing with this damage for years.  Anyone who travels, north, south, east or west through the country will see that that is the case.  Quite small rivers are doing an infinite amount of damage and people seem to put up with it in an extraordinarily patient way.  I do not know why.  This Bill will give a great opportunity to ameliorate cases of that kind.  There has been a certain amount of drainage done lately in my county of Kildare. I am aware that the Kildare Co. Council have always taken a very great interest in the extension of drainage.  When I was a member of it a few years ago they were very anxious about taking advantage of drainage.  There is still a great deal to be done in the way of drainage there, and I am sure it is the same in other counties. 
     
     Deputy O'Kelly found fault with the amount of money that is available in the way of a contribution from the State.  We would all like to have a larger sum of money, but still a great deal can be done with £1,000, and anybody who has had anything to do with drainage works will agree that that is   so.  I speak from personal experience, because I was troubled by a river that ran through my own place, and a couple of years ago, at a comparatively small cost, I carried out improvements which I consider were very good value. I know that a great many districts not very far from mine would be benefited very much by a small amount of money spent on draining them.  I am very anxious to see this work carried out now, as there is a great deal of distress and unemployment.  These improvements would certainly give a great deal of employment in every way.  Even though the amount is small, yet a great deal can be done for £1,000 in the way of drainage.  A thousand pounds spent on one of those small rivers would go a very long way in deepening the rivers, clearing away weeds and so on. I think that altogether we are very fortunate to have this Bill brought before us.  There may be sections in it that could be improved, and no doubt they will be improved in Committee. This Bill is one that will have a lasting effect for good on the country through the improvement of land which is in very many places very much needing improvement.  In many parts of the country land has been really allowed to go to waste through want of care in the matter of drainage, and very often very little expenditure in the beginning would have put matters right.  I am in hopes that from this Bill very great good will result.  I am sure if all Parties in the Dail are unanimous about it, good and satisfactory results will follow its passage through the House. 
     
      
       I agree with the Deputy that if this Bill is amended in some sections it can be made a very useful one.  There are one or two points that I would like to raise if I may.  I would like to ask the Minister if the county councils and a city corporation can join together in the carrying out of this Bill.  The Bill specifically speaks of two county councils co-operating.  May I take it that the Corporation of Waterford would take the place of a county council? 
     
     
      
       County boroughs are excluded under the Bill. 
     
     
     
      
       The reason I raise the point is that near the City of Waterford considerable damage is done by flooded marshes; damage is done to the land and to the county roads.  The Corporation of Waterford approached the County Council some time ago with reference to a scheme and the County Council turned the matter down.  Now, if the County Council could obtain any advantage under this Act, I think that work would be undertaken, and it is very desirable work.  If the Minister could see his way to include corporations it would facilitate county councils very much.  The allowance of one-fifth as a State grant is good, but I am afraid that many of the county councils would not consider it adequate.  What they are afraid of is the cost of maintenance. The argument used by the county councils is that if they carry out the work they will be charged with the cost of maintenance for all time, and it is very hard to assess a rate to meet such a contingency as that.  If some of these points are cleared up the Bill will be all the better for it. 
     
     
      
       I also welcome this Arterial Drainage (Minor Schemes) Bill.  There are very many applications under the Arterial Drainage Act of 1925 in my county that would come under this measure; they are small schemes of £400 and £500. It is difficult to assess a rate for the carrying out of the work, because often the land benefited is a good bit away from where the drainage works are carried out.  What I mean is, not the adjacent land that would be subject to the area of charge, but the land that is further away and which will also be benefited. 
     
     I ask the Minister to consider increasing the State contribution.  Under the Arterial Drainage Act of 1925 I think the Minister for Finance in some cases gave 33 per cent. and, as a further inducement to the carrying out of schemes, if county councils would make a contribution of ten per cent. or twelve per cent. the Minister for Finance was prepared to give a further contribution of a like amount.  Under the Drainage Act of 1925 the grants amounted to about 60 per cent. of the total cost.  If   the county councils and the occupiers of the land have to provide four-fifths of the money, I am afraid that the county councils will look upon the schemes as being uneconomic.  They are not uneconomic in the strict sense of the word, but the improvement in the value of the land will not appear to justify the expenditure.  For that reason I ask the Minister to increase the State contribution. 
     
      
       I read through this Bill carefully, and, in my opinion, any person would take it to be a Bill which will be of great benefit to the country.  But I must say from experience of the Arterial Drainage Act of 1925, and the manner in which it has been availed of, I am afraid the people in the constituency I represent will not avail of this measure to any great extent, although it is a portion of the country in which a great deal of damage is done through flooding.  The County Council of Roscommon was offered 50 per cent. in connection with a particular scheme, and yet that scheme was not carried out.  The County Council was offered a free grant of 50 per cent., but they did not consider the scheme was such that they would approve of it and give a grant in aid.  Now, if a grant of 20 per cent., which is the maximum amount allowed under this Bill, is offered, I do not believe it will be accepted.  If the amount is to be confined to that figure, I think it will be impossible, in the area I represent, to get any drainage work carried out, particularly with regard to small schemes under £1,000. 
     
     There are a great many sections in the Bill that require amendment, but they are not of any great importance. This is the most important item in the Bill, and yet it is an item that no ordinary Deputy can have amended.  I join with other Deputies in appealing to the Minister to increase the amount to be allowed; he certainly should endeavour to improve that section and leave it open to the Minister for Finance to consider the amount that he will put down in any particular case. Unless that is done it will defeat the object aimed at.  That is the only item I desire to lay emphasis on.  The Minister should provide a larger sum   than 20 per cent.  There are other items which can be dealt with by way of amendment when the Bill is again before us. 
     
      
       So far as this scheme goes it is very welcome, and it simplifies to a great extent the difficulties which confront landowners in various parts of the country; but it does not go far enough, especially in view of the fact that drainage in different areas has been neglected for a great number of years, and particularly in later years when the people of the country were engaged doing something else.  I agree with the last Deputy that the Government contribution is not adequate. There are acres upon acres of land under water at present.  There are particular parts of the country which require to be drained and which would form as big jobs as a great many of the drainage areas which are scheduled within the meaning of the Arterial Drainage Act.  It would require a great deal more money than the county councils are able to put up to deal adequately with the demands made in these particular areas.  In the constituency I represent I know that representations have been made in at least six cases to the Board of Works this year with a view to a suitable grant being given for drainage. 
       I join in the appeal made from various parts of the House to the Minister requesting him to consider increasing the grant the Government proposes to give.  The Bill certainly simplifies the position from the point of view of the people who require to have their lands drained and also the county councils, but it does not go far enough.  There is a good deal of window-dressing in this Bill and I believe we will find that when it becomes an Act it does not do all that is now expected of it. 
     
     
      
       I welcome this Bill too.  We are ready enough to condemn other measures that have been brought forward, and it is only fair that in this instance we should mark our approval. The Minister has given a very frank statement of this measure which will be welcomed in many parts of the country, especially for the reason that it will tend to make the larger schemes   all the better.  A great many people when speaking of the larger schemes that are now before the Board of Works ask: &ldquo;What about the rivers and drains leading up to them?&rdquo; This scheme, to my mind, will relieve anxiety on that question and will make it possible that many of the smaller schemes can be carried out. I agree with what other speakers have said in regard to the contribution.  Those of us who have looked into the reports which have come from the Board of Works in regard to the larger schemes will have seen that but for the State contribution they would not have been an economic proposition, but of course it has to be remembered that the drainage will have more far-reaching effects than that.  The drainage will be a benefit and an asset to the State in the future.  I would agree with those who have said that a larger contribution than one-fifth of the cost would be helpful.  It would encourage such work to be done.  In view of the climate that we have developed in recent years and with the appearance of so much land soured and under rushes, a larger contribution than the one-fifth would be a decided inducement to the people of the country to take heart and tackle this drainage work in real earnest.  I welcome the Bill.  It may not be a perfect Bill, but I think it is one that will stand a good deal of criticism.  When it is passed and becomes an Act, as we hope it will, I feel it will prove to be a very useful thing for all who live by the cultivation of the soil. 
     
     
      
       I think all Deputies are agreed on the point that the contribution from the Central Fund to make the schemes proposed under this Bill a success is not as big as is necessary.  I feel that a great deal more will have to be done in that respect. The Bill is important in this respect, that the procedure for getting work of this kind done is much simpler under it than the procedure laid down for work of the kind under the Act of 1925.  After the Bill of 1925 became an Act it was at once felt, I think, that the procedure under it was cumbersome and involved a great deal of delay.  I can see some difficulties, too,   in connection with this Bill, and can imagine what is going to happen in a big county like Cork.  There we have only two county surveyors.  I can see the hopeless confusion that is going to be created with regard to their work. Big demands will be made on them in connection with the schemes under this Bill, and they will also, of course, have to attend to their ordinary duties.  I do not know how that difficulty can be got over, but I feel it will present a difficulty as regards making schemes under this Bill a success.  We have had much experience of the working of the 1925 Act in the County Cork.  As a matter of fact only one scheme has been tackled.  While that is so, it is only fair to say that the responsibility for delay in the matter does not rest with the Department or with the people who have provided the machinery to tackle schemes of the kind. 
       Speaking from my own experience, I would like to say that the work done in restoring existing drainage districts has been very well done.  It has given a great deal of satisfaction and has resulted in bringing about an improvement over a very large area of land in different parts of the constituency that I represent.  From what I know of the demand that there is for schemes of this kind, I think it would be desirable to have introduced a more comprehensive scheme than the one now before us.  An attempt should be made to meet the demands that will undoubtedly be put up for an increase in the contribution from State funds, and for better facilities for a speedier and fuller examination of the schemes submitted than can be provided at the moment by the county councils with the machinery at their disposal.  So far as the Bill goes to meet the very urgent demands that will be made for schemes of this kind well and good, but I think it might be amended with good effect.  I feel the suggestions that have been put forward towards achieving that end ought to receive very careful consideration. 
     
     
      
       There seems to me to be no finance in this Bill at all.  The county councils are in difficulties.  They   are not able to collect the rates and are not in a position to raise loans. This Bill will be a dead letter.  It will, however, have served one purpose&mdash;it will have relieved the Central Government of the responsibility, and, as I think Deputy Corish said, it will provide a certain amount of window dressing. It will give the Government an excuse for shirking responsibility which they should themselves carry out.  The small farmers of the country especially are suffering very much from the want of a proper system of small drainage schemes.  These are schemes which should be done by grants direct from the Central Government rather than be schemes carried out under the direction of the county councils.  The small farmers have to contribute to the rates. The farming industry is in a very depressed condition at present.  So much so that many of the county councils are in debt, and none of them can afford to increase the rates in order to raise the necessary money to pay for drainage schemes.  For that reason I think this measure is not going to be a success.  In principle it is good in certain matters.  There are points in it with which everyone must agree&mdash;for instance, the decentralisation and the handing over of administration to the county councils for the carrying out of the work, but so long as the county councils are not in a position to provide the funds to enable them to carry out the work, the Act is really worse than useless and will merely act as window dressing in the eyes of the public. It will leave the real trouble unremedied. 
     
     
      
       I would like to know from the Minister what he means by valuation basis approving these schemes when putting them forward. If my interpretation of the Minister's explanation is correct, it seems to me that one large grazier, a person nonresident with a considerable farm, could keep ten or twelve or more poor dwellers floating around in a hovel.  I hope that interpretation is not correct. If it is, it certainly shows a flaw and needs to be remedied.  It would be intolerable if valuation basis meant that one person would be able to hold up a whole scheme simply because he happened   to be a large land holder in an area and that around him you had a very congested district.  If, because of the fact that his valuation was greater than the combined valuations of all the people in that congested area, he was able to hold up a scheme, then I say that should not be allowed.  I agree with what has been said by Deputy O'Kelly, and I am glad to say by some Deputies on the other side of the House, namely, that the contribution mentioned is hopelessly insufficient.  I hope that the Minister will consider giving a two-fifths contribution instead of the one-fifth as heretofore. 
       Deputy O'Connell referred to schemes not being put into force in the County Mayo.  My recollection is that when this question of drainage was mooted, and before the people had an opportunity of appreciating exactly what the benefits would be under the scheme, they were very enthusiastic, but when they found out the position in regard to the contribution they would receive that enthusiasm became considerably damped, and drainage has not gone ahead.  There are, as Deputy Davis has said, other difficulties as well. I think most of the Deputies on those benches would be very anxious to know has the Minister in mind any plans for speeding up the bigger questions of drainage in the country.  There are more rivers in urgent need of attention than the Barrow and places like that, that have been fortunate in their representatives or something of that sort. There are rivers like the Moy and the Robe in Mayo where thousands and thousands of acres are flooded and under water.  For some time back an inspector has been sounding the depths &mdash;I do not know whether he has found the heights yet&mdash;and inspecting these places, but what we do not know is when the bigger schemes will be embarked upon.  The smaller schemes cannot be a success until the larger schemes are first embarked upon. 
     
     
      
       Bearing in mind that this Ministry deals with public health, I do not want to disparage in any way the benefit to public health which may be brought about by drainage in the country, but as to the   money available for public health purposes, I certainly would weigh the matter very carefully if I had the spending of such money before deciding whether it should be spent on drainage or spent in any other direction.  We have not yet, as a matter of policy, looked upon arterial drainage from any other point than as a business enterprise. It is not likely that in the discussion of this Bill from the point of view of the State contribution we can depart from that aspect of things.  We still, in presenting this Bill, want to regard arterial drainage as a business enterprise.  Some of the remarks that have been made, particularly, I think, by Deputy O'Kelly, seem to ignore the fact that the Arterial Drainage Act of 1925 can deal with all the bigger schemes and any minor schemes that the Minister for Finance decides to deal with under that Act. 
     
     With the Bill now before us we have a complete drainage code.  The Drainage Maintenance Act of 1924 enabled old drainage districts to be entered upon by the Board of Works, improved and handed over to the County Council for maintenance with a suitable drainage rate.  The Arterial Drainage Act of 1925 enabled all the big drainage work in the country to be done under that Act.  The Minister for Finance is restricted in no way as to the amount of the grant he may give for any particular drainage scheme.  This Bill deals with small schemes.  Any three occupiers can ask to have a drainage scheme dealt with, and because of the fact that it deals with small schemes, and also because of the fact that the money spent in carrying out these schemes will, to a pretty large extent, go in wages to some of the occupiers or their sons in these particular areas, a grant of one-fifth from central funds to these schemes as a flat grant cannot be regarded as unreasonable, I think.  At any rate, we would require much more detailed and systematic representations before we could be forced from that particular point of view.  There might be schemes that on the face of them might warrant a little more than one-fifth, or schemes that, on the face of them, would warrant a little less than one-fifth, but the giving of a flat rate   gets rid of an examination of the smaller schemes to know whether we should give one-fifth point twenty-seven or one-fifth point twenty-four.  I do not know that there is any other way out of it. 
     It is mandatory on the county council, when a scheme is put up under this Bill, to get a preliminary report from the county surveyor on the merits of the scheme.  They can turn down the scheme on his report.  Generally there is no intention at the present moment to interfere with the county councils turning down schemes which they consider are not proper schemes to proceed with.  If to any very large extent, a county council neglects its statutory duties, there are ample powers under the Local Government Acts of 1923 and 1925, to bring suitable pressure to bear on them to carry out their statutory duties.  Power is being given under this Bill to individual occupiers to proceed along particular lines, and power is being given to county councils to help them to proceed along these lines. There is very little use in any of us standing with a stick over the county councils and telling them to get on with this work. 
     Deputy Goulding raised a question regarding the possibility of a borough co-operating with the county council. I feel that if the scheme Deputy Goulding has in mind were gone into, it would be found that the cost would be more than £1,000.  I cannot imagine a drainage scheme involving a borough together with the county council that could be regarded as a minor drainage scheme.  The Deputy can further consider the matter with a view to putting in an amendment on the Committee Stage if he thinks there is a possibility of small schemes being prejudiced by borough councils being left out.  However, it is considered that if there was a small scheme that involved a borough council and a county council, there is power, even if it were under £1,000, under the Drainage Act of 1925, to go ahead with that scheme, because the present Act introduces a clause that makes it necessary that all schemes under £1,000, if submitted under the 1925 Act, must come back to the   county council to be carried out under this Act.  If there is any point in it that prevents the county council carrying it out under this Act&mdash;such a point would be that a borough council was involved in it&mdash;then the scheme would revert back as a scheme for drainage under the Act of 1925, so on consideration I think the point hardly arises. 
     
      
       Is the State contribution also available under the 1925 Act? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  There is no restriction on the Minister for Finance in giving a contribution of any amount.  He could give a contribution of the whole of the cost if he thought the circumstances warranted it. 
       There is no idea of window-dressing in this Bill.  If it is not going to be a success it simply means that the cost of drainage under present circumstances is such that drainage is not economically worth while going on with.  While there may be some persons and some councils that may look at the matter from that point of view, there is ample evidence that there are others who will be very glad to avail of the provisions of this Bill.  Although I have not attempted to suggest in anything I have said that this is a great Bill, I suggest that it is a useful Bill and that it gives people powers to get drainage carried out who have not the powers already. I, personally, have hopes that very good work will be done under the Bill. 
     
     Deputy Murphy thinks that the county surveyors may be saddled with too much work under this Bill.  If they are, there is power under the Bill to enable county councils to employ outside engineers for the purpose of these schemes.  If it is worth while doing it, we expect that county councils will do it.  We look forward with some hope to county councils realising the business possibilities of drainage, even from the economic point of view. Deputy Ruttledge raised a point that I will undertake to look into.  The Bill as drafted suggests that the aggregate value as stated in the drainage schemes of the lands that are proposed to be improved will be considered, and that if occupiers of more than one-half of   that aggregate value oppose the scheme it will be dropped.  The case which the Deputy suggested may be purely a hypothetical one, but it is worth some consideration as to whether that is a fair way to leave the matter.  If the Deputy on his part will see how a better arrangement may be suggested by an amendment, I will see if from my side I can suggest a better arrangement. 
     Question put and agreed to. 
     Committee Stage ordered for Wednesday, 29th instant. 
   
   
     SEANAD EIREANN&mdash;CONSTITUTION AND POWERS OF, AND METHODS OF ELECTION. - WEIGHTS AND MEASURES BILL, 1928&mdash;SECOND STAGE. 
     
      
       I move that the Bill be now read a Second Time.  This Bill effects certain modifications in the laws at present relating to weights and measures with a view to more efficient administration of those Acts.  There are about eight types of modifications suggested by the Bill, of which the most important is that referred to in Part II., whereby measuring instruments are to be brought within the scope of the Weights and Measures Acts.  Originally those Acts had only reference to the ordinary type of weight and measure.  Afterwards various types of weighing machine were brought within the scope of the legislation.  Now we are seeking to bring in measuring instruments, the most notable type in common use being, of course, the ordinary type of petrol pump.  The necessity for this extension can best be evidenced by the simple statement that of about 18,000,000 gallons of petrol sold in this country last year about 70 per cent.  were sold through instruments that were not subject to any legal check, and there was no protection for the public in this way.  This Part II. (Sections 10, 11 and 12) will for the first time bring instruments such as that under control. 
     
     There is a hardship arising at this point, because there are certain types of measuring instruments in use at present some of which, even with modifications, can hardly be brought within the scope of the measure, and to insist   on the destruction or abolition of those at once would impose a hardship on people who had bought those measures in good faith, and bought them when they were sold as proper types of instruments to use for sale to the public. I would therefore propose at a later stage to give my own Department power to licence certain of those pumps for use, although they would not be types which ordinarily would get a certificate from the inspector.  One would have to insist that the pumps should have been in use as from some date before the introduction of this measure, and that they would only be allowed to continue in use for a certain period, that period to be measured by what would be the ordinary life of the particular instrument in question or what period would be considered a suitably long one in order to enable extra modifications to bring it within the certifiable class. 
     The first part of the Bill, beyond the definition stage, Sections 3 to 9, is rendered necessary by a particular section of the Intoxicating Liquor Act, 1924.  In that Act an amendment introduced by, I think, the Labour Party, gave power to the Minister for Justice to insist on certain standardised types of bottles, and the Minister for Justice, in December, 1925, finding there was considerable variation in the types of bottles used for the sale of porter and stout, decided that bottles of a certain type only should be used&mdash;bottles containing either a pint, a half-pint or one-third of a pint&mdash;and the regulations automatically brought these within the scope of the Weights and Measures Act. At the only factory in which bottles are manufactured in this country a certain procedure was adopted.  It was rather complicated, and it was only by the goodwill of the inspector and of the company that it was arranged at all. It is now proposed to impose the necessity for the taking out of a licence in such a case.  It was only in the one case at present under consideration that this arrangement was thought a suitable one.  At present at the factory the system is that a bottle, on being produced, is stamped with the inspector's mark, but is not released from the factory until such time as the inspector   has satisfied himself that that mark ought properly to be applied to it.  It cheapens the cost of getting the mark put on and the cost to the trade, and there is no fear of any bottle being allowed to escape, unless it passes the test of the inspector after it comes from the mould.  A considerable number have been destroyed by the inspectors acting in this way.  It has been the subject of complaint by the factory in question, but it has been found necessary, and is a security, at any rate, to the public that the inspectors are doing their duty and that the accuracy of these measures is being insisted upon. 
     Here again I had promised to interested parties that if it were considered desirable I would introduce another amendment allowing for testing places to be set up at the ports, so as to enable those who insist on using imported bottles, and who say they cannot get the proper type of bottles made here, to have verification and inspection done at the ports, and to save the necessity of having bottles unpacked, verified and stamped and re-packed and taken back for circulation.  However, at the time when I made that promise there were certain statements made with regard to the number of imported bottles coming in and the number of imported bottles that were actually in use in the country at the time. The number does not now appear so large, and it is doubtful if there is to be any saving to those who do use this type of bottle by the arrangement proposed, but if any amendment is thought necessary to be introduced it will have to proceed on the basis that the extra cost of testing at the ports will have to be borne by those who import the bottles, and it will never be done as cheaply as the testing will be done at the factory where the bottles are manufactured in this country. 
     Outside those two important parts there is Part 3, which introduces a certain number of very minor modifications into the code as it exists at present. Section 13 gives power to the Minister to prescribe accurately and without any doubt with regard to the verification stamp.  Previously it was thought that this power was given, but   there are some doubts entertained as to how full the power is, and this was inserted to put the matter beyond any doubt.  Section 14 removes another peculiarity that has been found to occur in the old Acts.  It gives power to cancel a certificate given to an individual as an inspector.  As the law stands, once a man is appointed an inspector under the Act, even though he ceases to inspect for a great number of years, he must still retain the title. This is to give power, if and when it is thought necessary, that the title or the nomination of inspectors may be cancelled.  There is a certain limitation in it.  Section 15 is a very minor matter.  It simply is another method of arriving at uniformity with regard to verification.  Section 16 imposes by law what is now the recognised practice&mdash;that is to say, that inspectors should not be appointed except as the result of an examination test.  It has always been the custom, and this merely imposes it as a matter of necessity under the Statute. 
     Sections 17, 18, 19 and 20 deal with a further peculiarity that arises under the old Acts.  Owing to the omission of the framers of the Acts to repeal certain portions of previous legislation, there was dual control with regard to weights and measures.  There was a control exercised by the Board of Trade and there was also a control vested, in certain cases, in certain judges and in Petty Sessions magistrates. It is now proposed to have the control vested in the Department of Industry and Commerce.  Consequently, it is necessary to repeal the Acts, the repeal of which was omitted in previous legislation.  Section 21 is a section the necessity for which has been brought about by the amalgamation of the Garda Siochana and the Dublin Metropolitan Police.  It is simply a matter of machinery. 
     
      
       To the general principle of this Bill there can be no objection, but I would like if the Minister would take into consideration the inclusion in the Bill of bottles used for the sale of milk.  The report of the Food Prices Tribunal has been published, and the Minister is, no doubt, aware that the members of the Tribunal   carried out an inspection of a number of bottles used for the sale of milk in Dublin, and they found that the average pint bottle was really ten per cent. less than one pint.  That is a system of fraud which I think should not be permitted to continue, and as a Bill of this kind is going through the Dail, I think it would be a useful opportunity to include provisions that those bottles should be standardised.  I am not at all sure that the suggested amendment in connection with stamping of bottles at the port is wise.  I do not think we should facilitate in any way the importation of bottles, particularly standardised bottles.  The standardisation of these bottles is meant to ensure that there will be a market for them in the country of sufficient size to place their economic manufacture in the country beyond any shadow of doubt, and, therefore, any attempt to facilitate the importation of bottles should not be proceeded with, even at increased costs, if we are to compel the users of bottles to use the Irish products. 
     
     
      
       In connection with this Bill, I would like to ask the Minister about the hint in his speech in reference to an application from interested parties.  I refer to some people connected with the wholesale wine and spirit trade in Dundalk and the way they are placed in competition with their Northern rivals in little towns and villages midway between Newry and Dundalk&mdash;Crossmaglen, Forkhill, and several towns and villages which were great customers formerly of those merchants.  They are now placed more or less at a great disadvantage in sending their wares to those particular towns and villages.  I would like the Minister to give some assurance that he will meet those people and place them in a position to compete with their rivals in the North who can have bottles at a cost amounting to something like threepence per dozen. 
     
     It is all very well to speak about supporting Irish industry, but Dundalk is a town that has been very severely hit by the Border, and any facilities that can be granted to the merchants there should be granted.  I sincerely hope that the Minister will give expression   to the concessions indicated in his opening statement when he said that he had made a sort of promise to interested parties.  I have a suspicion more or less who those parties are, and that they are the parties which I have in my mind.  If there could be some agreement reached between the interested parties that would satisfy the Minister and satisfy those people also, I think it would be well to have it carried out. Of course, I welcome the Bill and the provisions contained in it.  From the remarks of Deputy Lemass, I feel sure that the passage of this Bill will be made easy by all parties in this House. 
     
      
       I agree the measure is useful and probably necessary, but on reading the Bill I was struck by what appeared to be the incompleteness of Section 10, that is, the section referring to instruments for measuring distance or area.  From the Minister's opening remarks the omission seemed to be the more remarkable when he referred to instruments for measuring petrol.  I wonder that he had not gone on to add &ldquo;instruments for measuring distance, or area, or volume.&rdquo;  Perhaps if the Minister would make some reference to the matter now, it would save the trouble of introducing amendments on the subject in Committee. 
     
     
      
       With regard to what Deputy Lemass said, that will really arise on legislation relating to the establishment of bottles of a certain capacity for milk.  Once bottles of a certain capacity are established they would fall automatically under the Weights and Measures Code, just as when it was ordered what was to be the standard bottle with regard to stout and ale.  That discussion will arise on the Report of the Food Prices Tribunal, and legislation may have to follow.  A measure will have to be introduced here with regard to testing, inspection, and verification when bottles of a certain capacity are insisted upon. 
     
     With regard to the information that Deputy Coburn has said and also the remarks of Deputy Lemass on the subject, I had given a certain indication to bottlers that if they liked there would   be established certain testing places at the ports.  The object of that is to save more trouble and expense, because undoubtedly the expense of testing at the ports will be considerably greater than the expense at the factory.  But here again we can discuss this more in detail on the amendment.  It will be seen that there is still a very substantial preference given to the bottles made at the factory than to the bottles imported from outside and brought in here.  It was the intention of the Dail that preference with regard to home-manufactured bottles should be established, and it is not to be disturbed by any arrangement which will be made.  It might be eased a little, but it will be eased more from the point of view of loss of time and inconvenience.  But the matter of price, if touched at all, will be touched very slightly.  There will remain a very substantial preference for the bottle manufacturers at Ringsend.  As to Deputy Thrift's point, I ask him to note that the definition of a measuring instrument in a particular section of an old Act will be extended so as to include instruments to measure area and volume, and he will find that this definitely covers the petrol pump. 
     
      
       Might I ask the Minister if petrol tins are included under &ldquo;measuring instruments&rdquo; in the Bill? 
     
     
      
       It will depend on whether they are a measure of capacity.  If they are they are included, and they would have been included under the old Acts. 
     
     
      
       Will the Minister take care to see that any further petrol pumps erected are standardised? 
     
     
      
       Any further pumps to be erected will have to be pumps to which a certificate will have to be given. 
     
     
      
       I think a good case could be made for excluding petrol pumps altogether from this Bill and dealing with them in a separate Bill. There are other problems in connection with petrol pumps that cannot be dealt with in this Bill.  For instance, there   is the question of fraudulent spirit, a thing that will become more and more serious.  At present no motorist has a guarantee at all that he is getting the spirit he is paying for.  There are different qualities of spirit; he may be paying for the best quality, whereas the spirit in the pumps may not be at all of the best quality.  Although I am not prepared to vote against the Bill, I think it would be wiser if there was separate legislation for this. 
       Question put and agreed to. 
       Committee Stage ordered for Friday, March 2nd. 
     
   
   
     SEANAD EIREANN&mdash;CONSTITUTION AND POWERS OF, AND METHODS OF ELECTION. - DENTISTS BILL, 1927&mdash;REPORT STAGE. 
     In this Act&mdash; 
     the expression &ldquo;the Minister&rdquo; means the Minister for Local Government and Public Health; 
     the expression &ldquo;the Board&rdquo; means the Dental Board constituted by this Act; 
     the expression &ldquo;the register&rdquo; means the Register of Dentists for Saorstat Eireann to be established under this Act; 
     the expression &ldquo;the General Council&rdquo; means the General Council of Medical Education and Registration constituted under the Medical Acts. 
     the expression &ldquo;the General Dental Board&rdquo; means the Dental Board in the United Kingdom as constituted under the Dentists Acts as modified by the Agreement set out in the First Schedule to this Act; 
     the expression &ldquo;the General Dentists Register&rdquo; means the Dentists Register maintained under the Dentists Acts; 
     the expression &ldquo;the Medical Council&rdquo; means the Medical Registration Council constituted under the Medical Practitioners Act, 1927 (No. 25 of 1927); 
     the expression &ldquo;registered dentist&rdquo; means&mdash; 
     (a)  in relation to anything done or to be done or an event happening before the establishment of the register, a person who at the time when such thing is done or to be   done or such event happens is either registered in the General Dentists Register or, having been so registered at any time after the 1st day of January, 1922, has ceased to be so registered otherwise than by reason of his death or his having been convicted of a felony, misdemeanour, crime, or offence or his having been found guilty of infamous or disgraceful conduct in a professional respect, and 
     (b)  in relation to anything done or to be done or an event happening after the establishment of the register, a person who at the time when such thing is done or to be done or such event happens is registered in the register; 
     the expression &ldquo;qualifying examination&rdquo; means an examination in dentistry or dental surgery held for the purpose of granting certificates of fitness to practise dentistry or dental surgery by any university or college in Saorstat Eireann for the time being having power to grant such certificates; 
     the expression &ldquo;practice of dentistry or dental surgery&rdquo; means the performance of any operation and the giving of any treatment, advice, opinion or attendance usually performed or given by a dental surgeon or dentist and includes the performance of any operation or the giving of any treatment, advice or attendance on or to any person preparatory to or for the purpose of or in connection with the fitting, insertion or fixing of artificial teeth; 
     the expression &ldquo;self-governing dominion&rdquo; means and includes the Dominion of Canada, the Commonwealth of Australia, the Dominion of New Zealand, the Union of South Africa, and Newfoundland; 
     the expression &ldquo;British possession&rdquo; does not include Great Britain or Northern Ireland or the self-governing dominions. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
     
     In page 3, section 1 line 44, after the word &ldquo;respect&rdquo; to insert the   words &ldquo;or his registration having been procured by fraud or made by mistake.&rdquo; 
     This is to meet the point that was raised by Deputy Thrift on the Committee Stage, that a man might have had his name on the Register by mistake or through fraud. 
     Amendment put and agreed to. 
     Section 1, as amended, agreed to. 
     The following amendments to Section 3 were submitted:&mdash; 
     2.  In page 4, section 3, to delete sub-sections (3) and (4) and substitute one sub-section as follows:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;(3) The Board shall consist of nine members who shall be nominated and elected respectively by the several bodies and persons specified in the Second Schedule to this Act and, in the case of elected members, shall be elected from the several classes specified in the Second Schedule to this Act.&rdquo; 
     &mdash;Aire Tionnscail agus Trachtala. 
     3.  In page 4, section 3 (3), line 41, to delete the words &ldquo;nine members&rdquo; and substitute therefore the words &ldquo;ten members up to 31st December, 1953, and nine members thereafter.&rdquo;&mdash;Francis C. Ward. 
     4.  In page 4, section 3 (3), to delete the word &ldquo;nine,&rdquo; line 41, and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;ten.&rdquo;&mdash; Peadar S. Ua Dubhghaill, John J. Byrne, Arthur P. Mathews. 
     5.  In page 4, section 3, to delete paragraph (c), lines 45 to 58, and substitute therefor the following:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;(c) two, who in elections prior to the year 1953 shall be registered dentists in Saorstat Eireann and registered or formerly registered (as the case may be) in the General Dentists Register under section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1921, and shall be elected by the registered dentists so resident and so registered or formerly registered (as the case may be);&rdquo;&mdash;Francis C. Ward. 
     6.  In page 4, section 3 (3) (c), line 45, to delete the word &ldquo;one&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;two,&rdquo; and in lines 45-46 and lines 52-53 to delete the words &ldquo;a registered dentist&rdquo; and substitute the words &ldquo;registered   dentists&rdquo;&mdash;Peadar S. O Dubhghaill, Arthur P. Mathews, John J. Byrne. 
     7.  In pages 4-5 to delete section 3 (3) (d), and substitute therefor the following paragraph:&mdash; 
     &ldquo;(d) four, in elections held prior to the year 1953, and five in the case of every subsequent election, who shall be registered dentists resident in Saorstat Eireann and registered or formerly registered (as the case may be) in the General Dentists Register otherwise than under section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1921, and shall be elected by the registered dentists so resident and so registered or formerly registered (as the case may be). &mdash;Francis C. Ward. 
     8.  In page 4, section 3 (3) (d), line 59, to delete the word &ldquo;four&rdquo; and substitute the word &ldquo;three.&rdquo;&mdash; Patrick J. O'Dowd. 
     
      
       Amendment 2 has, of course, to be taken with the Schedule which is concerned with the last amendment, and I think in conflict with that amendment are amendments 3,4,5,6,7 and 8.  I do not know in what order it is proposed to take them. 
     
     
      
       Shall we discuss the number and constitution of the Council under amendment No. 2?  If No. 2 is carried, clearly amendments 3 to 8 fall. 
     
     
      
       If No. 2 is carried do not all the rest fall? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Could we really discuss amendment 2 without discussing the Second Schedule? 
     
     
      
       Not at all; the Schedule is bound up with it. 
     
     
      
       I merely want agreement as to which we should take. 
     
     
      
       I would like to make a point about this, because it seems to me that there are two principles involved in these amendments. If we pass amendment 2 we fix the   membership of the Council at nine, and therefore virtually carry the adoption of the Minister's Schedule.  That would make it impossible to make the change, such as was sought to be made in Committee, of giving more representation to the dentists who were registered under what we call the 1921 Act principles.  It seems to me that there is at least this distinct difference: that is the question as to whether the number shall be fixed definitely at nine from now for the future, or whether it should be fixed at ten for a number of years, and subsequently at nine.  I would like to have a decision taken on that point if possible.  That alternative would give some measure of agreement amongst those Deputies who have put forward amendments in various forms. That seems to be where the real difference of opinion comes in, that a number of Deputies think there should be certain flexibility in the matter, that for a time the Council should consist of a larger number than nine, and that after that time it should consist of nine. 
     
     
      
       Might I say, in answer to Deputy Thrift, that it is not necessary to increase the number of the Council in order to give increased representation to the class known as the 1921 men.  If I take my own Schedule, as the Bill stands at the moment, the four bodies to be represented are the Executive Council, the Medical Council, the 1921 men, and the other dentists. 
     
     
      
       Are we not really going into the merits of the amendment now? 
     
     
      
       I am afraid we are. 
     
     
      
       I suggest not. The Minister did not exactly get the point I was trying to make.  If you carry nine I say that those who wish for greater representation for the registered dentists under the 1921 Act are faced with this dilemma, that they must accept a smaller representation, either for the members of the General Medical Council or for the properly registered dentists, and that I think a number of them would rather not have,   even with having succeeded in getting two for the registered dentists under the 1921 Act, and, therefore, would be cut out from making a suggestion they wish to make about these dentists.  It is not debating the rights or wrongs of the thing at all; it is debating the effect of binding us down to a considered amendment of that sort. 
     
     
      
       Is it not possible on amendment 2 to discuss all amendments down to 8? 
     
     
      
       That is my suggestion, that we take the numbers involved in all the amendments down to No. 8 on No. 2. 
     
     
      
       It must be remembered that we are on the Report Stage, and that a Deputy can make only one speech, unless you decide to recommit the Bill. 
     
     
      
       That is for the Dail. 
     
     
      
       I think that the Minister has met the objections very fairly&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Could we decide to go into Committee on this? 
       Ordered that the Bill be recommitted. 
       The Dail went into Committee. 
     
     
      
       We will take amendment 2, and discuss on it all the amendments down to No. 8. 
     
     
      
       On amendment 2, as the Bill stands at the moment, it is proposed that the Dental Council shall consist of nine members, and four sets of people are supposed to be represented on or nominated to that Council&mdash;the Executive Council, the Medical Council, the 1921 dentists, and those men who are called fully qualified dentists, in opposition to the 1921 class.  As the Bill stands, the representation given to these four sections is: one to the Executive Council, three to the Medical Council, one to the 1921 men, and four to the qualified dentists. It was suggested on the Committee Stage that sufficient representation was not given to the 1921 men, and the   very sound point was made that on the Board the single 1921 representative would not have an additional member to second a motion, or an amendment, or something he would bring before that Board.  To meet that I propose to change the Council.  I propose still to keep a body of nine, but I propose to vary the representation given to these four different bodies in successive periods of five years.  The reason for that is that the 1921 dentists are a small class.  They are a larger class here in relation to the qualified dentists than the same class would be in England, but they are a disappearing class.  Their numbers cannot be added to, and after a five years' period there will be certainly a big diminution in their numbers.  Consequently, in the Second Schedule I propose that for the first five years the Council should consist of nine, of which one would continue to be nominated by the Executive Council, and only two would be nominated by the Medical Council instead of three as proposed in the Bill, and that that member taken from the Medical Council should be added to the 1921 men.  The representation would then run: a member nominated by the Executive Council, two by the Medical Council, two by the 1921 men, and four by the others.  After the first period of five years has expired, the representation would be: one by the Executive Council; the Medical Council would recover its third representative as the 1921 men would lose the additional man given to them for the first period of five years, and four would still be nominated by other dentists. The representation then would be: one nominated by the Executive Council, three by the Medical Council, one by the 1921 men, and four by the others. After that period, the Council would still consist of nine people, but the nominations would be: one by the Executive Council, three by the Medical Council, and five by qualified dentists. I would suggest that as a proper equilibrium as between those conflicting dentists and the Medical Council. The Executive Council member remains constant throughout. 
     
     
      
       We are all agreed, I think, that the 1921 class, or the people   engaged in the practice of dentistry or dental surgery, who have not been on the register but will get on it as a result of the present Bill, are numerically strong enough to be entitled to more than one representative on the Dental Board.  The only point I think there is disagreement on is as to at whose expense the representation of the 1921 men is to be increased.  The Minister's amendment proposes that the representation of the 1921 men on the Dental Board should be increased at the expense, for the first five years, of the Irish Medical Council.  Other amendments suggest that it should be increased at the expense of the dentists holding degrees or diplomas.  To me it seems highly objectionable to reduce the strength of the representation of the Irish Medical Council to a figure of two in a Dental Board consisting of nine members.  It is very doubtful if, in the original constitution of the Dental Board, the Irish Medical Council was given sufficient representation.  But in view of the importance of the position of the Irish Medical Council in relation to the Dental Board and the dental profession, I think that to give two representatives to the Irish Medical Council is nothing short of an absurdity.  For the benefit of some Deputies who may not be conversant with the relationship of the Irish Medical Council to the Board, I would refer to some of the sections of this Bill. Sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 32 are as follows:&mdash; 
       (2)  If, as the result of an inquiry held under the foregoing sub-section or as the result of a report received by the Board from the General Dental Board of an inquiry held by such Board, the Board finds that the person in respect of whose conduct such inquiry was held was guilty of infamous or disgraceful conduct in a professional respect the Board shall send to the Medical Council a report of the facts proved at such inquiry and of the finding of the Board. 
     
     (3)  If the Medical Council, on consideration of a report sent to it under this section and after giving the person to whom such report relates and   the university or college (if any) at whose instance the said inquiry was held a reasonable opportunity of being heard, is of opinion that the name of such person should be erased from the register, the Medical Council shall direct the Board to erase the name of such person from the register and the Board shall forthwith erase such name accordingly. 
     These two sub-sections very clearly indicate the responsibility of the Irish Medical Council towards the Dental Board, and I think they very clearly indicate the necessity for maintaining the representation of the Irish Medical Council on the Dental Board at at least a reasonable strength.  On the other hand, I do not think it would be reasonable to increase the representation of the non-qualified, the 1921 men, at the expense of dentists holding a degree or diploma.  The position of the 1921 men has now been legalised, but while we admit that they are entitled to more than one representative on a committee of nine, yet a proportion of two representatives of non-qualified men to three representatives of qualified men would not be a proper reflex of the status of the two classes of dental practitioners.  I am sure the Minister is aware that the constitution of the Dental Board of Great Britain gives very strong representation to the British Medical Council.  I do not for a moment suggest that everything done over there should be slavishly copied here, but they sometimes do things that are on proper lines, and the fact that they legislate in a manner that could with advantage be copied here is, I think, not sufficient reason for refusing to adopt similar methods here. I wish to oppose as strongly as I can the Minister's amendment to reduce the representation of the Irish Medical Council to two. 
     
      
       I am generally very easily pleased, and in this case I will be prepared to meet the Minister if he makes a very slight change.  As far as the numbers are concerned of those who are qualified and those who are getting on under the 1921 Act actually, the number of unqualified people is greater than the others, and I should be satisfied if in the first part   of the Schedule he gave the numbers as follows:&mdash;One member shall be nominated by the Executive Council; three members shall be nominated by the Medical Council; two members nominated by the 1921 men, and three by the registered men.  That is all the change I suggest, and I make it for this reason: that for those five years there is no doubt the non-qualified men would exceed in numbers the qualified men&mdash;at least for a year or two&mdash; and to have a proportion of three to two would not be at all unfair.  I would deplore a lessening of the number of the representatives nominated by the Medical Council, although Deputy Ward has perhaps fallen into an error by omitting to state that the Minister intends, if he is able to carry it, to remove the power of the Medical Council as far as the matters Deputy Ward has referred to are concerned. According to another amendment, the Minister is going to give complete power to the Board to remove the names of men.  As the Bill stands, after passing through the Committee Stage, the Board, after trying cases, report these cases to the Medical Council, and the Medical Council will order the names to be removed.  The Minister now proposes to take that power from the Medical Council, and he further suggests to take one member from the representation of the Medical Council for the first five years. 
       I would support the Minister if he met me in this way, namely, to have the first period as follows: 1, 3, 2, 3; after that 1, 3, 1, 4; and after that 1, 3, 5.  That would allow three representatives from the medical profession all the time. 
     
     
      
       With one exception I would support the Minister's Schedule.  That exception refers to the point made by Deputy Ward.  I think it would be a mistake to reduce the representation of the Irish Medical Council to two, even for five years.  The suggestion which I would make is a simple one.  It is that the Minister should accept a council of ten for five years, and the numbers should be 1, 3, 2 and 4, giving the dentists registered in 1921 two out of ten for five years,   and after that the total number should be nine.  Taking the numbers as specified in the Minister's Schedule, that would give an increased representation to the 1921 people.  It would not curtail the Irish Medical Council's representation, nor would it curtail or unduly depress the representation of those whom the Minister calls properly qualified dentists. 
     
     
      
       I wish to point out that the Minister originally agreed to give the 1921 or unqualified men a representation of two, and I am rather surprised to learn that that representation of two is to be reduced to one after five years.  I fail to see on what ground that proposal could be justified.  At present the unqualified men are in excess of qualified men.  There should be some reasonable representation given to unqualified men.  Is it suggested that after five years the unqualified men will disappear?  I am sure that the Minister would not make a suggestion of that kind.  There can be little disagreement so far as the representation of the other units is concerned. I suggest to the Minister that it is a great hardship to give with one hand and take away with the other.  I ask him to substitute for the figure five the figure fifteen. 
     
     
      
       I am afraid that I will have to go over a larger field than I intended owing to Deputy Ward's reference to Section 32, which now remains as it was passed on the Committee Stage, but Deputy Ryan moved to wipe out that and prevent the Medical Council from having anything to do with that section.  I promised to look into the matter, and I am proposing to amend it as Deputy Ryan proposed in Committee.  I want to take out the Medical Council from that section.  That may be a reason for strengthening the medical representation or getting rid of it on the Dental Board.  One thing I feel about it is that, whatever representation is going to be given, qualified dentists should, at any rate, loom rather largely on that Board, and to propose that the representation of these men should be cut down at the expense of the Medical Council does not seem to me to be a reasonable proposition.   If I thought there were going to be many subjects of conflict arising between the medical and dental members on the Board, we would have to see what these subjects were going to be, and whether the medical point of view would be sounder than the dental point of view.  I do not see that there is going to be much conflict.  There is reason for giving representation to the medical profession on the Board, so that the two professions might have the same professional standard and etiquette. I do not think it is necessary for that purpose that the medical people should have a very big representation on that Board.  Deputy Sir James Craig wishes, with Deputy Ward, to have a representation of three for the qualified men as opposed to four, which was my suggestion, for the first period, and that the medical representation should be increased to three instead of two. That, I think, is unreasonable, as the qualified dentists should, at least, be left with a representation of four, and that representation should be increased to five at the end of fifteen years.  It would not be fair to have on the Dental Board a representation of three qualified dentists out of nine members. 
     
     
      
       My amendment provides for a Board of ten&mdash;four representatives of the qualified or degreed men, two of the 1921 men, one nominated by the Executive Council, and three by the Irish Medical Council. 
     
     
      
       That is practically similar to Deputy Thrift's amendment enlarging the Board to ten for the five years period.  It seems to be the best amendment proposed yet.  Deputies must consider whether it is sufficient to have the qualified men represented by four members on a Board of ten.  I think it would be better to give them four on a Board of nine.  I think they deserve that.  There is not much difference, but it would probably mean, if the Board were increased to ten, that the Executive Council would have to lean definitely towards the appointment of another qualified dentist for the five years period.  The proposal, however, is a matter for the Dail to determine. I would suggest, if the Schedule is not acceptable as it stands, that   Deputy Thrift's amendment be accepted, that is, for the first five years the number will be increased to ten, and that the composition of that ten would be one by the Executive Council, three by the Medical Council, two by the 1921 class, and four by the qualified dentists.  Personally, I prefer the Schedule.  I think it is right that the medical representation should be cut down for the first five years, and let them rise to their full height of three after that.  With regard to what Deputy Byrne has stated, I did promise a representation of two, but when I thought of giving increased representation to the 1921 class, I indicated, as everybody must recognise, that they would be a disappearing class, that their influence would disappear with the matters that brought the 1921 class into being, and that they would not require separate representation.  The 1921 men to all intents and purposes, will be qualified dentists from this on, and there ought not be any conflict between them and the people who emerged from an examination test. Their numbers are greater, and they are going to decrease.  The details upon which there will be subjects of quarrel with the other people will lapse quite soon. 
     
     
      
       I am willing to accept Deputy Thrift's amendment. 
     
     
      
       The only point of difference between Deputy Thrift's amendment and mine is as to the number of years the Board of ten should continue to exist.  If there is general agreement I am prepared to accept Deputy Thrift's period of five years. 
     
     
      
       I hope the Minister will accept the 15 year period suggested by Deputy Byrne.  The 1921 class number 319, and though they may be a disappearing class they are entitled to some consideration. 
     
     
      
       The 15 years period was never before the House as an amendment.  That was merely an expression of opinion by Deputy Byrne. 
     
     
      
       I never imagined that the Minister would only give representation of two for five years.  If I   had got any hint that that was so I would have put in an amendment.  If the Minister would accept the ten years period I would agree to that. 
     
     
      
       It is not a question of bargaining with me.  It is a question of convincing the House of the necessity for a ten or a fifteen years period. 
     
     
      
       Is there general agreement with the amendment that &ldquo;nine&rdquo; be deleted? 
     
     
      
       Will An Leas-Cheann Comhairle accept an amendment at this stage that the period for the unqualified men be increased from five to fifteen years? 
     
     
      
       I do not think I could accept an amendment at this stage. 
     
     
      
       Deputy Thrift's amendment has been accepted. 
     
     
      
       There has been general agreement to delete the word &ldquo;nine.&rdquo;  What is the amendment the Deputy wishes to propose? 
     
     
      
       The representation of two of unqualified men is being reduced to one in a period of five years.  I wish that period should be increased to fifteen years. 
     
     
      
       Would the Deputy accept seven years? 
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       Am I to take it that Deputy Byrne's amendment to the Second Schedule is to put in seven instead of five years?  The whole system of allocation is based on the five years period, and if the amendment were accepted it would require a considerable amount of reshuffling to get the matter in order. 
     
     
      
       If it would help the Minister to square the Bill I will accept the ten years period.  It was only on the suggestion of the President that I   was willing to take half a loaf.  I suggest that in the Second Schedule a period of ten years be substituted for the five years period. 
     
     
      
       If that is the proposal I do not agree with it. 
     
     
      
       My suggestion is that in the Second Schedule, for the word &ldquo;five&rdquo; we substitute the word &ldquo;ten.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Would that mean that there would be two elections, one at the end of the first five years and another at the end of ten years? 
     
     
      
       It would. 
     
     
      
       At this stage I will have to revert to my former ruling.  I cannot accept the amendment.  I have not the amendment before me and I do not see exactly what the Deputy wants.  I cannot accept it.  It is clearly a matter that has been discussed in Committee and out of Committee&mdash;a special Committee and a general Committee&mdash;and I cannot accept the amendment at this stage. 
     
     
      
       May I suggest we are discussing this matter now in Committee? 
     
     
      
       I allowed the Deputy ample time in order to hear what he wanted and the Deputy evidently has not made up his own mind as to whether the period should be 5, 7, or 10 years. 
     
     
      
       I understood I was being ruled out because we are not in Committee. 
     
     
      
       No; we are in Committee. 
     
     
      
       Have we left the Schedule, or are we to take it that in (b) three is substituted for two? 
     
     
      
       It is amended by the substitution of three for two in paragraph (b) of Section 3 (3).  I think that was the agreement of the House. 
     
     
     
      
       Yes. 
     
     
      
       I am quite agreeable to that. 
       Amendment 3 withdrawn. 
       Amendments 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 not moved. 
       Section 3, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 6. 
       (1) Whenever a vacancy (in this Act called a casual vacancy) occurs in the membership of the Board by reason of the death, resignation, or disqualification of a nominated member, the Board shall forthwith notify the authority or body by which such member was nominated of the occurrence of such vacancy and such authority or body shall as soon as conveniently may be nominate a person to fill such vacancy. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 9: 
       In page 5, Section 6 (1), line 31 and also line 33, to delete the words &ldquo;authority or.&rdquo; 
       This is a drafting amendment.  A particular phrase crept in and it was not necessary. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 6, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 9. 
       (1)  As soon as may be after the passing of this Act the Minister shall send to the Medical Council a notice in writing requesting them to nominate three members of the Board. 
     
     
      
       Amendment 10 reads:&mdash; 
       In page 6, Section 9 (1), line 20, to delete the word &ldquo;three&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;two.&rdquo; 
       This amendment is not necessary now, because originally it was brought in on the basis that the Second Schedule was going to pass with two members to be nominated by the Medical Council.  It is now thrown back to the original figure of three, and the amendment, consequently, is not moved. 
       Section 9 agreed to. 
     
     
        SECTION 10. 
     (1)  The nominated members of the Board shall at their first meeting and thereafter do the following things, that is to say:&mdash; 
     (a)  regulate their procedure and appoint the times and places of their meetings, and 
     (b)  prepare with the approval of the Minister a scheme for holding in accordance with this section an election of elected members of the Board, and 
     (c)  hold such election and communicate to the Minister the names of the persons elected thereat. 
     (3)  Three nominated members of the Board shall constitute a quorum at the first and every subsequent meeting of the nominated members of the Board. 
     
      
       I move amendment 11:&mdash; 
       In page 6, Section 10 (1), line 42, after the word &ldquo;Board&rdquo; to insert the words &ldquo;to hold office during the five years next after the establishment of the Board.&rdquo; 
       Again this is pretty definitely a drafting amendment. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 12:&mdash; 
       In page 6, Section 10 (3), line 53, to delete the word &ldquo;three&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;two.&rdquo; 
       Originally the idea was that three should constitute a quorum.  Then it was decided that we should make two a quorum at the first and every subsequent meeting of the nominated members of the Board.  I think it would be well to make the quorum two, and I move accordingly. 
     
     
      
       Two is a very small quorum out of ten.  It is not a very small quorum where you have five or six members.  I think this is a case where you should have something in the Act to meet the two cases, which are quite distinct. 
     
     
      
       It is only for the nominated members. 
     
     
     
      
       Do you specify a quorum when you have the full Board sitting? 
     
     
      
       I think after the Board is fully established it is left to the Board to fix its own quorum.  This has reference only to the nominated members, the nominated portion of the first Board. 
     
     
      
       It may be assumed, then, that the power of the Board afterwards to fix its own quorum will not be interfered with? 
     
     
      
       No. 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 10, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 13. 
       (1)  Not more than two months nor less than one month before every expiration of the term of office of the nominated members of the Board, the Board shall send to every authority and body entitled under this Act to nominate a member of the Board a letter notifying such authority or body of the date of such expiration and requesting such authority or body to nominate a person to become and be a member of the Board on such expiration. 
       (2)  Every authority or body nominating a member of the Board shall, in the case of a nomination made before the establishment of the Board, communicate to the Minister and, in the case of a nomination made after such establishment, communicate to the Board in writing the name of the person so nominated by it and no such nomination shall be complete until the name of the person nominated has been so communicated to the Minister or the Board (as the case may be) by the body or authority making such nomination. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 13:&mdash; 
     
     In page 7, Section 13 (1), to delete all words after the word &ldquo;every&rdquo; in line 19 to the end of the sub-section and substitute therefor the words &ldquo;each of the bodies entitled   under this Act to nominate members of the Board a letter notifying such body of the date of such expiration and requesting such body to nominate such number of persons to become and be members of the Board on such expiration as such body is entitled under this Act to nominate in respect of the period of five years commencing on such expiration.&rdquo; 
     This amendment has been rendered necessary by changes on the Committee Stage and other changes proposed here. The effect is to delete all the words from line 20, and it fits the thing in with the scheme as the arrangement for election and nomination now stands. 
     Amendment agreed to. 
     
      
       Amendment 14 is the same as amendment 9: 
       In page 7, Section 13 (2), line 25, to delete the words &ldquo;authority or&rdquo; and in line 32 to delete the words &ldquo;or authority.&rdquo; 
       Amendment agreed to. 
       Section 13, as amended, agreed to. 
       SECTION 14. 
       (1)  Before every expiration of the term of office of the elected members of the Board, the Board shall hold an election in accordance with this Act of elected members of the Board and shall so hold and conduct such election that the same is completed before but not more than two weeks before the commencement of the term of office of the members. 
     
     
      
       I move amendment 15: 
       In page 7, Section 14 (1), line 36, to delete the words &ldquo;elected members of the Board&rdquo; and substitute therefor the words &ldquo;such number and classes of elected members of the Board as are prescribed by this Act in respect of the period of five years commencing on such expiration.&rdquo; 
       Again it is a clarifying amendment. It sets out in better detail what has to be done. 
     
     
        Amendment agreed to. 
     Section 14, as amended, agreed to. 
     SECTION 28. 
     (1)  The several persons named in the Second Schedule to this Act shall on passing an examination in dentistry prescribed and held by the Board for the purpose within seven years after the passing of this Act and on making the prescribed application and paying the prescribed fees be entitled to be registered in the register. 
     (2)  Every of the persons named in the Second Schedule to this Act who is registered in the register under this section and is resident in Saorstat Eireann shall so long as he is so resident and registered be entitled to vote and be elected at an election of the elected members of the Board held after he is so registered as if he were registered in the register by virtue of a previous registration in the General Dentists Register under Section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1921. 
     (3)  Every of the persons named in the Third Schedule to this Act shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to be registered at the passing of this Act in the General Dentists Register under Section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1921, and shall accordingly have until the establishment of the register all the rights in relation to practising, voting, and otherwise conferred by this Act on persons so registered and shall also be entitled (subject to payment of the prescribed fee) to be registered in the register as the establishment thereof. 
     
      
       Amendments 16 and 17 read:&mdash; 
       In page 10, Section 28 (1), line 56, to delete the word &ldquo;Second&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;Third.&rdquo; 
       In page 10, Section 28 (2), line 62, to delete the word &ldquo;Second&rdquo; and substitute therefor the word &ldquo;Third.&rdquo; 
       They are much the same.  There has been a new Schedule put in. 
       Amendments agreed to. 
     
     
     
      
       I propose amendment 18, which reads:&mdash; 
       In page 10, line 61, to add at the end of Section 28 (1) the following: 
       &ldquo;Provided that nothing contained in this Act shall operate to prevent the several persons named in the Schedule from engaging in the practice of dentistry or dental surgery for one year from the date of the passing of this Act.&rdquo; 
       This is an important point.  Certain names contained in what has just become the Third Schedule, though it was referred to in the amendment down in my name as the Second Schedule, are affected by this amendment. It is proposed that they should be allowed to practise after they have passed a certain examination.  Other people whose names are in the new Schedule are to be allowed to practise immediately after the passing of the Bill.  The Minister, in introducing the Bill, suggested, and the Special Committee agreed with him, that there were certain people who were entitled to special consideration, that they should be given an opportunity of completing their qualification by passing an examination within a certain period after the Bill became law, and that they should, when they did pass that examination, be entitled to be put on the register to practise as dentists.  The point arose as to what was to happen to these people&mdash;people nearly qualified&mdash;in the period that was to elapse between the coming of the Bill into law and the time when they passed the examination.  The Minister takes a very strong line in the matter, indeed. 
     
     It seems to me unnecessarily hard lines to refuse permission to these people to practise dentistry at all, once the Bill becomes law, until they have passed an examination.  Some months would, of necessity, elapse before such an examination would be held, and it might happen that at the first examination they would not succeed in satisfying the examiner.  Some months would of necessity elapse.  These men are at present engaged in the practice of dentistry, and engaged, as appears to the Committee, with a considerable amount of success.  Unless we make   some considerable changes here, the effect of the Bill as it now stands would be that the practice which these men have would be automatically cut off the moment the Bill became law, and that in the period that would elapse between the passing of the Bill and their passing an examination, they would not be able to practise at all. Even if they were to pass the examination afterwards, their practice, or a large part of it, would be lost and they would not be able to resume business in the same way favourable to themselves as they would if they were allowed to practise after the passing of the Bill.  It seems it would be right in the case of men who are recognised as the best class of unqualified dentists that they should be allowed to carry on their practice as they have done for several years past until they had an opportunity at least of passing this qualifying examination. 
     The second amendment in my name would give them at least two examinations in the twelve months in which it would be necessary for them to obtain the required qualification.  But my amendment would enable them to have continuity in their work, continuity between the present time when the Bill becomes law and the time at which they pass the examination.  If they fail to pass either of the two qualifying examinations held within twelve months after the Bill becomes law, I would not suggest that any more mercy should be shown them.  But I would give them an opportunity of passing this examination before I brought down the guillotine, as the Minister proposes to do.  The effect of my amendment would be to give them a period, possibly up to twelve months, during which they would be required to pass a qualifying examination, and during which they could continue their practice and not be submitted to the hardship of losing their practice, as would be the case if this section is passed without an amendment. 
     
      
       I would like to support the amendment moved by Deputy Thrift.  I think it should be generally agreed that if the practice of these men is now to be interrupted until such time as they pass the qualifying examination   and become registered, we might as well not have put them on the schedule at all for examination, if we are now to put them out of practice for such length of time as will elapse until they have passed the examination and become registered.  There are not so many cases involved altogether, and the Committee that was set up by this House to examine the cases went into them very carefully.  Most of these people have been, during a very long number of years, practising dentistry. Their years of practice range from seven or eight years to 20 or 30 years. During those years, while so engaged, there has not been any case put up that they have done very much harm to the community amongst whom they were let loose.  When the corresponding Act was passed in the British House of Commons in 1921, the people who were engaged in the practice of dentistry during a period of seven years prior to that were automatically admitted to the British register without having to pass any examination.  Practically all those people who are on this schedule, if the Act were passed independently in this House, regardless of the Act passed in 1921 in England, would go on the register the same as the people who had been engaged in practising dentistry for seven years prior to 1921 in Great Britain and without passing any examination at all. I think that a number of those people had no reason to believe that when an Act similar to the 1921 Act passed in the British Parliament came to be passed in this country that it would be made retrospective for all practical purpose.  I think it would be a very great hardship on this section of the community if we were to put them out of practice now until they have passed the qualifying examination, and it certainly will be a very great injury to their business as dental surgeons or mechanics. 
     
     
      
       I would also like to support the amendment.  It does not work exactly in the way I would like to see it, because, under one of the sections of the Bill, these men are given seven years in which to pass the examination, and that to my mind is very much too long.  In my opinion, if a   man is to pass an examination at all, he is going to do it within a couple of years.  I would prefer to see the period of seven years cut down to two years and to give these men an opportunity during these two years of passing the examination without being cut off from practising in the meantime.  At the moment a case occurs to me.  It is the case of a man who has been employed by a widow to do the work of her late husband.  This man has been supporting the family by his work.  I may be wrong, but I think this is one of the men who would have to pass the examination. In my opinion, it would be a very serious thing for that family who were dependent for their support upon his work as a dentist if he were prevented from practising until such time as he passed this examination.  The Minister's point of view is on the whole very fair.  He says that if we give these men seven years they may go on for the seven years and they may say: &ldquo;I will not bother myself about the examination; I will go on for seven years and then chuck it.&rdquo;  That may not be the exact expression used by the Minister, but what he said was something on these terms.  At all events, he has expressed some such views as these.  I agree with him that seven years is too long.  I would tighten them down and I would certainly not give them seven years.  When the Medical Act was passed last year, the Medical Council elections were held in September, and I think it was only in the last week or two that they have been able to draw up their Standing Orders.  It would, therefore, be impossible for the Medical Council to make preparations for an examination inside seven or eight months.  For that reason, I think that a year is too short a period, and it would be impossible to have two examinations within the year if they were unable to get their Standing Orders drawn up before the lapse of several months. 
     
     
      
       I would like to object very definitely to this amendment, or to any amendment of a similar type.  I would not like to have the House impressed by any argument as to a man supporting his family.  The   same argument could be used with regard to every quack bone-setter and fraud in the country if he happened to have someone unfortunate enough depending on him.  Surely you are not going to legalise malpractices simply because someone is getting sustenance from such malpractices.  There is a distinct cleavage of opinion on this. As the Bill stands, unless people have a certain amount of experience which entitles them to get on the Second Schedule, and unless their qualifications are further verified by some examination, they cannot practise.  That is the situation with the Bill if Deputy Thrift's amendment does not pass.  As opposed to that, the argument was raised in the Select Committee that the Dental Board, being antagonistic to these people on the Second Schedule, might refuse to hold an examination for the full period of seven years, and might consequently keep some of these people, who would eventually get on by passing an examination, out for the seven years.  On the other hand, it was proposed at one time that they should be entitled to continue to practise until such time as they had failed in an examination.  The counter argument then could be used that people who were satisfied that they were going to fail would refuse to go for the examination and secure for themselves seven years unqualified practice which they knew they were not really entitled to. Deputy Thrift's proposal is that you do not touch any of them for a year, and that within that yearly period you have two examinations.  I suppose the implication thereafter is that if neither of the two exams. is attended, or if attended and failed, that then they would cease their practice. 
     
     
      
       That would be the Bill. 
     
     
      
       That is the situation, that they would cease their practice but that they would have the right to go for an examination as often as there was an examination in the next six years.  As a counter to that I offered an amendment in Select Committee that the several persons named in the Schedule should not be entitled to practise from the date on which this became law, but that they could demand   an examination at any time and at successive periods of six months within the seven year period.  To meet the point which Deputy Sir James Craig made, that in case the Board was not established, say, in the first six months' period, that then an examination would be held under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Minister for Local Government, that amendment I would offer again here as a compromise between what Deputy Thrift has proposed and the situation in the Bill.  Is there any merit why these people should get the opportunity of continuing what, up to this, has been an illegal form of practice without having their qualifications authenticated by examination.  Deputy Ward made the point that under the 1921 legislation in England certain people who could show that they had been a certain number of years practising got on without examination.  I would point out that this Schedule of ours has not been drawn up on that basis. In Select Committee we did go into all these cases with some precision.  We had another Committee appointed to examine and report upon the qualifications and experiences of the various people, but we did not set aside any term of years.  It cannot be said that this Schedule, with 22 names, contains everyone who has been in practice for eight years.  I never examined the Schedule from that point of view. 
     
     
      
       Seven years was the shortest.  I think there was only one such case. 
     
     
      
       At the moment I am not in a position to refute the Deputy's statement, but that was not my view and I leave it there.  At any rate, where is the hardship?  Here are people of whom no one can say that they have shown qualifications.  All that one can say is that they have been lucky in their practice to date, that there has been no misadventure and no death arising out of the fact that they have been practising for a certain period. Are we to accept that?  At the moment you have a considerable number of students in the Dental Hospital.  They have been doing, under supervision but for a less period, a better type of practice than a certain number of these men,   and yet no one is going to ask that, prior to passing their final examination in the Dental School, that these students should be enabled to practise on the public.  But that is what one is asked to do with regard to the 22 people here&mdash;that simply because they have been in an unqualified way practising on the public for a certain number of years that we are to say: &ldquo;Very well, continue to practise until such time as you fail an examination.&rdquo; 
     
     Deputy Ward said we might as well not put them on the Schedule.  There is a great deal of virtue and value in putting a man on the Schedule at the moment.  For one thing, it will entitle a man to get a professional status here if he passes the examination.  If my amendment, which I had before the Select Committee, were accepted, it would mean that these people could, within six months after the passing of this Bill, demand an examination from the Minister for Local Government, who would have to prescribe and hold such an examination.  The only disability put upon these 22 people would be that for some limited period of months, not exceeding six, they would have to leave their practice.  And why should they not?  They are not qualified dentists, and they have yet to show that they possess the qualifications that one ought to look for in a qualified dentist.  It is all very well to say that they have been lucky to date, but there is every reason for asking that this period of experience of theirs should be further authenticated by an examination before they are allowed to practise. By passing that examination there is this big consideration to be taken into account, that it will give a man a professional status with the right to practise dentistry.  His right to practise dentistry can no longer be challenged. It will also mean that a man's means of earning a livelihood is assured to him.  I offer as an alternative the amendment which I had before the Select Committee.  What that amendment comes to I may describe in this way: that there is no practice after the Bill passes into law until each and every one of the 22 people mentioned in the Schedule has passed an examination. That examination can be demanded within six months after the   passing of legislation.  If those on the Register fail at the first examination, then a further examination can be demanded at intervals of six months. I offer that as a reasonable amendment in opposition to the one put forward by Deputy Thrift.  If this amendment is accepted, I wonder would Deputy Thrift agree to what Deputy Sir James Craig has almost indicated, that is to say, that the seven-year period should be eliminated altogether. 
     
      
       Cut it down to two. 
     
     
      
       Cut the period down to one year and finish these 22 people once and for all. 
     
     
      
       I would not agree to that. 
     
     
      
       I think the seven-year period is altogether too long. 
     
     
      
       We would all agree to two years. 
     
     
      
       I think, whether we pass my amendment or not, we should agree that the seven-year period should go and that two years be put in instead.  That is to say, an examination has to be passed within two years, and that there is to be no further examination. 
     
     
      
       Will you allow them to practise for two years? 
     
     
      
       Oh, no.  I have my own point of view on that.  I am asking is there agreement in the House whether or not there should be practice immediately or deprivation of the right to practise immediately? 
     
     
      
       My suggestion is only in the nature of a compromise. 
     
     
      
       The Minister does not recognise one very important thing, and that is that these men who have been put in the Third Schedule have all served apprenticeships and justified their apprenticeships before they practised.  I do not recollect any case where there was not an apprenticeship. They practised after that for a   considerable number of years&mdash;I cannot say exactly how many.  That is to say, they are not really unqualified men.  They are not the men against whom this Bill is aimed; they are those who are more or less caught by the Bill in the attempt of the Bill to prevent harm being done.  They are not, properly speaking, unqualified, but they have not got the right kind of qualification, and we insist on this examination. I think we should not have this serious gap which will prevent them from practising as dentists.  We cannot cut a man off for six months from his profession and expect him to come back after that period where he left off; he will find all his practice has been taken away.  If the Minister would give six months I would put down an amendment&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       With one examination? 
     
     
      
       I would ask two chances, but I would not require that he should be allowed to practise up to the second.  Let him practise up to the first examination, and then give him two years in which he might resume practice if he passed an examination. 
     
     
      
       I think the Minister is putting the cart before the horse.  He speaks of these men demanding an examination, but I think it is the Board which demands them to sit for an examination.  The Board should not be obliged to wait until it suited their whims to come up for examination. They should not be allowed to put it off from month to month.  They should be asked to present themselves for examination every three months or so, and it is the authorities who should ask them to submit themselves for examination. If it is left to them to demand an examination they may not be in a hurry to demand it. 
     
     
      
       It seems to me that we might get agreement on this basis: having an allowance to practise for six months after the date of the passing of the Act&mdash;that is as regards the persons named in the Third Schedule&mdash;and cutting down the seven years in the body of the Act to two. 
     
     
      
       I would agree to that. 
     
     
     
      
       That leaves only one point to be discussed: how many examinations are to be held within the six months period? 
     
     
      
       One. 
     
     
      
       I would agree to that, certainly.  As far as I can gather, what has been suggested now is that in Section 28, in line 5, the word &ldquo;seven&rdquo; should be changed to &ldquo;two,&rdquo; that Deputy Thrift's amendments, 18 and 19, would be accepted and amended by inserting the word &ldquo;third&rdquo; before the word &ldquo;Schedule&rdquo; in the second line of amendment 18. by changing the words &ldquo;one year&rdquo; to &ldquo;six months&rdquo; in the third line of that amendment 18, and in amendment 19 by deleting the words &ldquo;at least two examinations&rdquo; and inserting &ldquo;one examination.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Will your amendments go forward? 
     
     
      
       Oh, no. 
     
     
      
       I think they are necessary; as Deputy Sir James Craig has pointed out it will take a considerable period to get the Board established. It is very likely that they will not be able to hold an examination before the six months has passed, and therefore you want to leave it to the Ministry to hold that examination and to increase the period when the six months has elapsed.  You require to have the examination held before the six months elapses, and you also require something in the Bill which would enable any person on this Schedule who failed at that first examination and who thought he had been very unfortunate and that if he had another chance he would pass to go up for examination afterwards.  I think you want to secure these two points. 
     
     
      
       I think we are in agreement now.  Amendment 19 will have to be amended so as to read: &ldquo;One examination shall be held within a period of six months after the date of the passing of this Act to enable&mdash;&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Would it not be an easy matter for the Minister to arrange an examination? 
     
     
      
       In addition there   would be this further amendment accepted: &ldquo;Where an examination has to be held under this section before the establishment of the Board, such examination shall be prescribed and held by the Minister.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Would the Minister consider the advisability of bringing in a new amendment seeing that the principle is accepted? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  I move to report progress on those amendments, and I will undertake to have the amendments to-morrow. 
       The Dail went out of Committee. 
       Progress reported.  Committee to sit again to-morrow. 
     
     
      
       resumed the Chair. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE DEPUTIES' BUSINESS. - THE TARIFF COMMISSION.   MOTION BY DEPUTY LEMASS. 
     
      
       I move:&mdash; 
       &ldquo;That the Dail is of opinion that the Tariff Commission, as at present constituted, is unsuitable for dealing expeditiously with applications received for the imposition of tariffs and should be replaced by a Commission, consisting of five members who should have a knowledge of agricultural and industrial conditions (of whom one should be a qualified accountant), appointed by the Executive Council with the approval of the Dail, and to hold office for a stated period; 
       &ldquo;That the Commission, thus constituted, should have power to investigate the conditions existing in any industry in regard to its need for Protection against foreign competition and should make recommendations to the Executive Council as to how the benefits derived from the measure of protection afforded to any trade can be shared by the consumers; 
       &ldquo;That for the purposes of its inquiries the Commission should be empowered to enforce the attendances of witnesses and to examine them on oath; 
     
     
       &ldquo;That the Commission report to the Executive Council, which shall publish such reports within three months of their presentation if so requested by the Commission.&rdquo; 
     Deputies will note that the motion deals purely with the machinery by which the applications for tariffs are to be examined.  The motion presumes that the question as to whether or not the State policy should be one of Free Trade or Protection has been already decided and that it is a question now of getting the most efficient machinery possible in order to have an adequate examination of applications and speedy presentation of reports.  It is our opinion that the existing machinery, the machinery of the existing Tariff Commission, is not suitable, that the method of its composition and the powers entrusted to it by the Act are such as to restrict its speedy working and that it cannot deal adequately with the situation that exists in this country. There is, I think, throughout the manufacturing classes generally no confidence in it.  There is an impression, a general feeling, that it is a waste of time and a waste of money for any association of manufacturers to prepare a case for submission to that tribunal.  Its members personally are no doubt qualified to hold the position and are capable, but in consequence of the restrictions imposed upon them they are practically powerless.  It has been in existence now, I think, for over a year and a half, and it has to date produced two reports with a promise of a third within this Session.  In view of the situation which exists in this country, we think that fact itself is sufficient to condemn the Tribunal.  It is sufficient at any rate to show that there is something radically wrong with its composition.  It is our opinion, of course, that it was not established to facilitate the imposition of tariffs, that the purpose of its establishment was mainly political.  It was intended to give people the impression that the Executive Council had the matter of protection of our industries under consideration and were anxious to facilitate it.  But the Commission on which they decided, in its working at any rate, has impeded rather than   facilitated the imposition of tariffs.  It is our opinion that this was not meant to be serious.  We have a statement on record, I think, by the Minister for Finance, that if the number of applications was increased the members of the Commission would be put on whole-time&mdash;that is, would be put in a position to give all their attention to the work of the Commission.  That statement I submit is not sufficient, because the number of applications will not increase while there is a feeling in existence&mdash;as there undoubtedly is at present&mdash;that it is a waste of time for manufacturers to prepare a case for submission to that body. 
     I should like to submit, and I think it is easy enough to prove, that there is a practical need for expedition in the matter of protection of our industries. We have a net adverse trade balance every year amounting to several million pounds which represents a loss of capital to the nation and which means that the vitality left to ensure revival in the country is gradually diminishing.  In addition, there is widespread unemployment.  It is impossible to get accurate statistics as to how widespread it is, but every Deputy knows from his own experience in his constituency that unemployment is very grave indeed.  In connection with that it is well to note that in addition to the loss of material capital consequent on the adverse trade balance, there is a serious loss of what one might call mental capital as well owing to the exportation of our skilled workers.  These are men that cannot be replaced.  It will take many years to substitute other workers for them.  They are going in consequence of the lack of employment at home, and unless we take some steps immediately to ensure that efficient machinery will be set up to protect our industries, then the loss which the nation will suffer will be irreparable in a generation at any rate. 
     In the motion there is a suggestion made for the formation of a Commission of a different kind.  It is suggested that the Commission should consist of five members appointed by the Executive Council with the approval of the Dail.  I should like to point out that it is not our view that Civil Servants   should not be on the Commission.  But Civil Servants are men who throughout their lives have lived in a sheltered occupation and have no practical experience of the storm and stress of industrial life.  It is, therefore, important that there should be on the Commission not merely Civil Servants, but men with a practical knowledge of industrial and agricultural conditions which would make them useful members of that body. It is very important indeed that men with practical experience of agriculture should be on the Commission, because despite certain statements which have been made in this House, it is the agricultural community which is most urgently in need of protection at present and it is really most urgent in its demand for it. 
     The size of the Commission is not important. We suggest five members and we think that a reasonable number.  It is important that they should be in a position to give their undivided attention to the work of the Commission.  It is important that they should be approved of by the Dail, even though they will be nominated by the Executive Council.  The suggestion that they should be nominated by the Executive Council is to ensure that there would be some uniformity of policy among its members&mdash;that the Commission would not be just a debating society at which free traders and protectionists would argue out their differences.  In that connection there is the example of the United States Tariff Commission which consists of six members appointed by the President and subject to the approval of the Senate.  The normal term of office is twelve years, but at the end of each two years a member automatically retires and a new appointment is made. There should undoubtedly be a set period of fairly considerable duration for which members would be appointed, to ensure that to some extent, at any rate, they would be in a judicial capacity and free from political influence. 
     The important sections of the motion, however, deal with the powers of the Commission.  They should have power to investigate conditions existing in any industry in regard to its need for protection.  The existing body   has power to consider only such cases where applications are made by those manufacturing or proposing to manufacture the articles sought to be protected. We have practical experience that there is a number of industries in which those engaged in them are convinced that if they are to be developed in this country protection is needed, but who will not themselves take the initiative in demanding protection, because they fear, as a result of the operation of a protectionist policy, foreign combines would come in here to capture the home market and put them out of business.  They are, therefore, in the dilemma that although they know protection is the best thing for their industries, it would probably, under existing conditions, be the worst thing possible for themselves.  We, of course, have definite views on that matter.  We think that as we build up our protectionist wall brick by brick we should also take effective measures to ensure that Irish industries would remain, if not under the control of Irish capital, at least controlled by capital that would be under Irish control. 
     There are other industries in which the powers of the Commission to investigate the circumstances in any trade would be most important.  We have the example of the railways.  The railway company a few years ago manufactured by far the greater portion of its rolling stock and its other requirements in its works at Inchicore. To-day figures can be produced to prove that it is importing many articles which could be manufactured more cheaply at its own works.  The question of the control of the railways, of course, would be out of order in this debate, but it would be well to point out that there is one particular case in which there is no conceivable likelihood of an application for a tariff being submitted to the Tribunal, and yet a case in which it is essential that some protectionist policy should be embarked upon.  The railway company, for example, purchased from America plant for the construction of axle boxes&mdash;the newest machinery of the kind on the market&mdash;erected it in its works, brought over experts to train the workers in the operation of the plant, and then, when the plant had been   erected and the workers trained, let it go to rust, and is, as we read in the Press, only a few weeks ago, advertising for tenders for the supply of axle boxes from abroad. 
     There is the agricultural industry. It is difficult to get agriculturists organised in order to submit a considered case to any tribunal.  The existing organisations which pretend to serve the interests of the farmers are, of course, merely graziers' organisations, and in no sense representative of the agricultural community at all.  We consider that the Commission should have power to examine the conditions existing in all phases of agricultural work and, if necessary recommend to the Dail that a protectionist policy should be embarked upon. 
     We also consider that the Tariff Commission should have power to make recommendations to the Executive Council to ensure that the benefits derived by sets of traders as a result of the imposition of tariffs should be passed on, to some extent, to the consumers of the articles sold.  We consider effective machinery to ensure that should not be difficult to establish.  The report of the Food Prices Tribunal shows that in certain articles of food, at any rate, there is profiteering of a very extravagant nature going on at the present moment.  We believe, for example, that if the association of manufacturers or traders, for the purpose of price-fixing, was declared illegal and that free internal competition was permitted to hold sway, a lot of that profiteering could be prevented. 
     The Commission, of course, should report to the Executive.  There may be cases in which there would be need for secrecy to prevent facts and information concerning our industries from getting into the hands of foreign competitors in a form that would be of advantage to them.  But there should be a definite time limit within which the Executive should declare its policy with regard to the Commission's recommendations. We suggest that within three months of their presentation the reports should be published by the Executive if so requested by the Commission.  The Commission,   being in possession of all the facts, would know whether the publication of the Report was in the best national interest or not. 
     There is an amendment to the motion tabled by Deputy O'Connell to which I would like to refer briefly.  The points of similarity between the amendment and the motion are much more numerous than the points of difference.  In the amendment it is suggested that the present Commission should be continued, with the exception that the members of it would be free to devote their whole time to the work.  There are three members of the present Commission, and the three are civil servants. I think a very strong case could be made out against having a Commission exclusively of civil servants.  There should undoubtedly be on it men with a practical knowledge of industrial and agricultural conditions which is essential for the proper consideration of the subject.  There is no reason why civil servants with particular qualifications should not be members of the Commission. 
     There is no mention in the amendment of ensuring that the benefits resulting from the imposition of tariffs shall be passed on to the consumers. The recommendation regarding the appointment of the Commission to investigate the conditions in any industry is practically the same, and in the majority of other matters the amendment is the same.  There is, however, in the amendment, Section 3, which states that the Commission should report &ldquo;On the safeguards required or desirable to ensure a satisfactory standard of working conditions for employees in any industry to which assistance or protection may be given.&rdquo;  I am not at all sure that it is advisable to impose that duty upon the Tariff Commission.  The Commission may not be the most suitable body to decide the safeguards required. There is in that section the suggestion that the Government has a responsibility for ensuring satisfactory working conditions only in the case of protected industries.  We hold that it is the duty of the Government to ensure that satisfactory working conditions should prevail in every industry operating in the State and not merely in   those protected.  That is a matter of very minor importance in view of the fact that it is not directly related to the motion.  Comparing the motion and the amendment, I am still of opinion that the motion is preferable, and I would ask the Dail to pass it in preference to the amendment. 
     In conclusion I would like to emphasise that there is very great need for expedition in this matter.  It is essential that we should decide on some definite policy for industrial and agricultural reconstruction and put it into operation in the very near future.  We cannot afford to let the policy of drift continue much longer.  There are some people no doubt who think that the evils that exist here are due to the fact that there are a million too many people in the country.  We do not.  We believe Ireland can be made a self contained until, providing all the necessities of living in adequate quantities for the people residing in the Island at the moment and probably for a much larger number.  The policy of this Party with reference to the control of economic matters in the State has already been defined here.  We consider that the entire economic policy of the country should be decided on by a national economic council such as exists in Germany and France and such as is suggested by one of the big English parties for that nation.  I notice it has also been suggested by Professor Johnston in an addendum to the Food Prices Report.  The Tariff Commission would of course be merely a unit of that economic council.  But pending the establishment of an economic council we think that the existing machinery should be improved as far as possible to ensure that it will be effective.  We submit it is not effective at present and that instead it is quite the reverse acting as a brake upon progress and as such it should be scrapped. The whole case for a proper Tariff Commission does, of course, presume the necessity for a Tariff Commission.  We are prepared to adapt the existing machinery in so far as it is possible to ensure that it will be effective.  Although we perhaps should not be taken as saying that in our view a separate Tariff Commission is the most effective way   of dealing with these matters, we think that the existing machinery could be made in part effective.  Of course no machinery by itself will achieve anything unless it is supplied with the driving force of a will to achieve things, and that driving force must be supplied by the Executive Council.  If the Executive Council has no policy, is divided in its policy, or is indifferent as to its policy on this matter, then the machinery will remain motionless no matter how perfect it may be.  Until we get a definite national policy decided on in favour of industrial and agricultural protection and an Executive in office prepared to enforce that policy, it is useless to hope for results. At the same time, we think the opportunity should be availed of to ensure that effective machinery will be there when such an Executive comes into office. 
     
      
       I beg formally to second the motion. 
     
     
      
       I move, as an amendment:&mdash; 
       To delete all words after the word &ldquo;opinion&rdquo; in the first line and add the words:&mdash;&ldquo;that the Tariff Commission Act should be amended so as to provide that the members constituting the Commission shall devote their whole time to the work of the Commission; 
       That the Commission constituted after amendment of the Act should have power (in addition to the powers given by the existing Act):&mdash; 
       (1)  on the submission of proposals by or through the Minister for Industry and Commerce or the Minister for Lands and Agriculture or on its own initiative, to investigate the position of any industry and the possibilities of fostering such industry or protecting it against foreign competition; 
       (2)  to report on the probable effect of methods of assisting and protecting any industry by methods other than customs duties; 
     
     (3)  to report on the safeguards required or desirable to ensure a satisfactory standard of working conditions for employees in any   industry to which assistance or protection may be given.&rdquo; 
     When the Bill which constituted the present Tariff Commission was going through the House the Labour Party made it quite clear that they did not agree that the machinery that was being set up under that Bill would be effective for the purposes for which a Commission of this kind was or should have been intended.  They indicated what their views were as to the particular form which the Commission should take.  But other views prevailed, and so the present machinery was set up.  The motion proposed by Deputy Lemass goes some length&mdash;I might say a considerable length&mdash;to meet the views which the Labour Party then gave expression to, but in our opinion it does not go far enough.  Deputy Lemass said that he preferred his motion to the amendment, but having had the advantage of hearing Deputy Lemass, I still think that the amendment is more definite and that it goes further towards creating the kind of machinery that we should have than the motion proposes to do.  But, as he rightly says, there are many points of similarity between the motion and the amendment, and many of the arguments used by Deputy Lemass would also go to support the amendment.  I think, however, that, he was under a misconception as to the first paragraph of the amendment when he stated that I proposed that the present Commission should be continued.  That is not the intention.  It states: &ldquo;That the Tariff Commission Act should be amended so as to provide that the members constituting the Commission&rdquo;&mdash; not necessarily the present members&mdash;&ldquo;shall devote their whole time to the work of the Commission.&rdquo;  But I have no particular objection to civil servants being the members who constitute the Commission.  There may be a good case made for having others than civil servants on the Commission, but I think it is just possible that civil servants will be found who will bring to their duties a judicial mind, and that it might be difficult, outside the ranks of the Civil Service, to find people who would be equally detached.  In any   case, the main point that I wish to stress is that the Commission should devote its time to the work, that it should not be, as it is now, a kind of spare-time or part-time job.  It should have much more importance, much more prestige, and fill a bigger niche in the life of the community than it does at present. 
     The position now is that if an application is made the Commission proceeds, very leisurely, to examine that application, and after some considerable time it decides upon it.  But if no application is made it has no function whatsoever; and it does seem anomalous that you might have men acting to-day in a judicial capacity, sitting as members of the Tariff Commission, adjudicating on a claim put forward by a manufacturer, and that to-morrow or the next day you might have one or other of these same men disputing with that manufacturer about a question of income tax, a trade loan guarantee, or some question of that kind, in his departmental capacity. That would hardly be a proper state of affairs. 
     The Minister for Finance, speaking in April, 1926, on the Budget debate, when he was announcing his policy of no further tariffs until there had been a general election, made one exception. He said that &ldquo;a particular industry might be beset by such special and peculiar dangers that there is great risk of its being lost for want of a comparatively small measure of help, promptly given.&rdquo;  It is almost impossible under the present scheme to give any measure of help promptly to a decaying industry.  We have had this Commission in being for a few years, and we know that not only months but possibly years have elapsed from the date of lodging an application for a tariff to the date when the help is given effectively in the form of a protective tariff.  The argument, I think, is strongly in support of making the Tariff Commission a whole-time occupation and giving it much more extended powers than it has at present. 
     I have stated that, unless an application is made by some person interested in an industry, nothing happens.  In fact, the whole approach of the Government, as set forth in the Act is, to my   mind, wrong, in that they have said that these protective tariffs are by way of concessions to an industry&mdash;&ldquo;concessions from the State&rdquo; is a phrase that, I think, appears in the Act.  I think that is a wrong way to approach this question.  The Government should have a definite policy on the question of protection and should not look on it as concessions to individuals who are interested more or less from personal or individual points of view.  The idea should be to protect and encourage industries which, in the opinion of the Government for the time being, are useful to the community as a whole. 
     Deputy Lemass cited cases of individuals engaged in industries who, for certain reasons, did not wish to make application for protection, although they knew that under protection their industries would flourish.  There is another class of case, the case of the manufacturer who is not enterprising, who is just pulling along, and who is content to pull along with the little business that he happens to be doing. It suits his purpose; he is not anxious for the extension of the business; he is not out to make a fortune, and he is quite willing to go along in a happy-go-easy way without making any application for a tariff, although he might be engaged in an industry which, if it were protected or helped by the State, would develop into one which would give considerable employment and which would add materially to the wealth of the country.  That is why we put down as an additional power which the Tariff Commission should have, those powers mentioned in the first paragraph of the amendment, namely the right itself to initiate inquiries into certain industries which, in the opinion of its members, might be such as would benefit from protection, or from some help other than a tariff, and that they would in a special way consider submissions from the Departments of Industry and Commerce which deal with the industries and the wealth-producing powers of the country.  They should consider especially proposals which would be submitted to them by these Departments, and it should be considered part of the duty of these Departments to examine the state of   various industries and make proposals to the Commission for the protection of industries which they thought should be protected, or make proposals to have the condition of those industries investigated. 
     The second paragraph of the amendment suggests that the Commission should have power to report on the probable effects of methods other than protection.  There are methods of helping an industry other than protection, and it should be for the Commission to investigate which of those methods, or which combination of those methods, would be best suited to meet the needs of an industry.  I do not agree at all with Deputy Lemass with regard to the final paragraph of the amendment.  I think it is very necessary, when the State gives protection to an industry, that special steps should be taken to see that there are satisfactory standards as regards wages and working conditions in that industry.  That does not relieve the Government of its obligation to see, in a general way, that there are good standards of working conditions maintained, but where the State gives special help to an industry, there are special reasons why this should be insisted upon.  We have evidence of the necessity for such precautions in the fact that, even at the present time, reports are current as to the methods by which some of our protected industries are carried on.  This is particularly true in the manufacture of sweets. Instances have been quoted where small so-called factories have been set up in stables and back-yards all over the city under most unsanitary conditions, in which young girls are employed under anything but suitable conditions of service. It is impossible where you have these little&mdash;I do not think I should call them industries&mdash;places to have anything in the nature of proper inspection carried out.  The same thing applies, to some extent, in the cabinet-making industry. I think that goes to show that the Tariff Commission before granting help to an industry should take steps to ensure that the conditions under which the workers are employed are suitable. 
     In this connection I might call the attention of the House to the fact that   under the Act setting up the Commission for South Africa, on which to some extent our present Act was modelled, there is a special clause authorising the Board to report, amongst other things, on the rate of wages paid, and the average or standard profits being made in an industry.  That was deliberately left out of our Act although the attention of the Executive Council was called to it at the time the Bill was going through.  The amendment, I think, on the whole, meets all the points raised by Deputy Lemass in his motion.  It even goes further and is more definite in its terms, and for that reason I commend it to the House. 
     
      
       I second. 
     
     
      
       I have listened with the very greatest care to endeavour to find out what advantage would be obtained by the motion now before the House, and I have failed to see that any advantage has been put before us which is worthy of our consideration. It has been suggested that the existing Commission of three should be increased to five.  But we have not been told what particular advantage would arise by the increase to that particular number.  Anyone who has any experience of commissions or executive work generally knows that when we increase the number of people set up to adjudge on particular points, instead of obtaining speed, we have procrastination.  We have been told that the object of setting up five is to speed forward the work of adjudgment, but we have not been told how the five will speed up that particular work.  I suggest that anybody who is conversant with the procedure of the existing Commission, as now constituted, will find it exceedingly difficult to improve upon that procedure. The procedure is exceedingly simple, and, I think, deals very effectively with any matters put before the Commission. Anybody conversant with procedure knows that first of all an application is made to the Minister for Finance, and then we have consideration by the Department of Finance of the representative character of the applicants. There is then either rejection or   reference to the Commission.  The Commission requests the applicant to submit a detailed case, a list of witnesses, a statement of evidence in writing, and on receipt of these particulars the Commission recommends the amount of the fee.  The Minister sanctions the amount of the fee, and the Commission informs the applicant of the amount and of the time to attend. 
     
     
      
       Is it in order for the Deputy to read his speech? 
     
     
      
       The question of fact to be decided is: Is Deputy Byrne reading his speech? 
     
     
      
       Perhaps the Deputy would give other Deputies credit for having sufficient intelligence to be aware of the procedure under the present Tariff Commission Act. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy is not out of order in reading an account of the procedure. 
     
     
      
       I am grateful to you, sir, for ruling that I am not out of order, and I think my friends on the left know perfectly well that in dealing with the Commission as it now exists I am dealing with the real pregnant issues of the matter.  The point put before us was that the existing Commission is inefficient, and the point I am dealing with is whether that Commission is efficient or whether it is not. In order to prove that it is not inefficient I am quoting very briefly&mdash;I have not encroached on the time of the House very considerably&mdash;the main heads or processes through which that Commission passes. 
     
     
      
       The Commission or the application? 
     
     
      
       I am dealing with the whole issue involved and I consider in doing so that I am performing the duty which my constituents sent me here to perform. 
     
     
      
       The duties of a Minister. 
     
     
      
       It might not be my duty alone as a member of Cumann na nGaedheal but also as a representative of the people. 
     
     
     
      
       Which comes first? 
     
     
      
       That point, I think, does not arise.  I am putting before the Dail the various steps which the Commission has to take in connection with particular matters, and if those steps are not efficient in the interests of the country we should be told which particular step is lacking in efficiency.  I am putting these various steps before the Dail in order that members on the opposite benches can say which is inefficient.  I was dealing first with the entry of an application.  An interval is allowed for inspection of documents by the various parties interested in the application.  That is a matter which is vital to the interests of everybody concerned.  Seven days' notice is given of the hearing of the application, and then the final hearing takes place.  Could anything be more simple than that?  As Deputies on my left suggested that I was reading my speech I would inform them that I was only reading the various steps of procedure which have to be gone through. It has been suggested by Deputy Lemass that the present Commission, and its powers, are inefficient, and I was reading out what these various steps of procedure are to show that the whole matter of the adjudication in regard to a tariff was simplicity itself and could stand the criticism of Deputies here. 
     
     It has been suggested that the powers of investigation are not what they should be.  As one who has been engaged in business practically for the whole of my life, I suggest that there is nobody better qualified to judge whether the levying or imposition of a tariff is necessary than those engaged in the particular industry in question. It has been suggested to us that the initiation of such a tariff should be taken out of the hands of those engaged in a particular trade or industry and entrusted to the Minister for Agriculture or the Minister for Industry and Commerce.  I have great respect for both Ministers, but I suggest that, in the interests of the nation, the less interference there is with private enterprise and with industries in general from these Benches the better.  I suggest, if an industry or trade needs protection,   that that particular industry or trade is better fitted to judge whether such protection is necessary than are the collective powers of reasoning of this Dail.  As a business man, I know how dangerous it is for one business man to interfere in the business of another.  There can be no doubt that men who have been engaged practically all their lifetime in business know more about that particular business than we can ever hope to teach them.  What is all this that is before us to-night?  It amounts to this, namely, that this Dail is about to set out on the task of teaching the business men of this country how to conduct their business. 
     
      
       Why did we pass the Egg Act? 
     
     
      
       We may pass an Egg Act or any Act we like, but I can tell you, speaking with an experience of many years, that men engaged in business and industry know more about the needs of such business or industry than the collective wisdom of this Dail. I am surprised that Deputies on my left, the Deputies of the Labour Party, whom I have always found to be exceedingly reasonable&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Is Deputy Byrne arguing that an application for tariffs on woollen cloth should be decided by the woollen millers, that a similar application with regard to flour should be decided by the flour millers, and that no one else should interfere? 
     
     
      
       I made no such statement.  I stated that in such a case those engaged in the particular industries know better than we whether it is to their interest or not to have a tariff imposed.  I would hesitate very long before going to the millers and telling them how to conduct their business, and if a miller came to me to tell me how to conduct mine my answer would be more forcible than polite.  I am sure it would be the same if he came to Deputy Lemass. 
     
     
      
       It would be polite at any rate. 
     
     
     
      
       What does this mean but a storm in a tea-cup?  We have been requested to set up a permanent Commission of five officials which will be sitting all its time and dealing with these particular matters.  Is there sufficient work to keep such Commission engaged?  Is the Commission as at present constituted not capable of deciding the various issues arising from time to time?  Has it been suggested by Deputies opposite that the present Commission is inefficient?  It has been suggested by Deputy Lemass that we should have somebody conversant with the needs of agriculture on that Commission. On the present Commission, in the person of Dr. Hinchcliff, Director of Agriculture, we have a person well qualified to fill that particular office to which Deputy Lemass refers.  Let us be honest in dealing with these matters. What are we going to gain by the suggestion of my friends of the Fianna Fail Party and also my friends of the Labour Party?  I suggest we are going to gain nothing.  There has been a cry for economy from the benches of Fianna Fail from time to time&mdash;about large salaries and so forth&mdash;yet we are asked to set up a whole-time Commission which would not have sufficient work to keep it going.  Let us get down to bedrock.  This motion is a party cry with neither logic nor sense to support it. 
     
     
      
       I would like to support the motion.  I agree with the last Deputy that men engaged in a certain trade know more about what is to their interest than any Commission which we could set up.  In putting this motion down, however, our idea was to try to have a Commission set up which would introduce tariffs that would be for the good of the nation.  It is quite possible that the introduction of tariffs would not be good for certain people engaged in a certain industry but that, on the other hand, it would be good for the nation.  I know a certain manufacturer who told me some time ago that business was not too good.  I asked him why he would not apply for a tariff and he said he was afraid to do so because, if a tariff were imposed, some foreign manufacturer might start business inside the country.  I do not know   whether it would be altogether good to have foreign manufacturers coming along here, but it would be for the good of the country if another native industry sprang up as the result of a tariff. It would not, perhaps, be good for the existing manufacturer, but it would be good for the country as a whole. 
     
     That is why certain people engaged in industry will not apply for a tariff. It would not be for their good, though possibly it would be for the good of the country.  Deputy Byrne asked what is the advantage of having five members as compared with three.  I think Deputy Lemass, in introducing the motion, said that he was not particular about the number, but he suggested five.  I am sure if Deputy Byrne would agree on the other points that Deputy Lemass would agree to three. We were told this Commission is efficient. Perhaps it is, and is, perhaps, doing as well as any three men could be expected to do under the circumstances. They are only part-time men and have to consider the applications handed to them by the Minister for Finance according to the routine outlined by Deputy Byrne.  They may be dealing expeditiously and efficiently with those applications&mdash;I am not sure&mdash;but we know that tariffs are not being applied as quickly as the country requires them.  What we are trying to secure in the second part of this motion is that the Commission should have power to investigate the condition of industries, and that it could, if so inclined, recommend a tariff.  That is very necessary, particularly in the agricultural industry.  For instance, with regard to many of the agricultural industries, we believe a tariff would be good for them and the country, but who is to take the initiative under the present system?  If you take bacon, exporters are not going to ask for a tariff, for there would be less for export if imports were cut down.  I do not know whether it would suit the factories to have a tariff.  Possibly, it would not.  Possibly, other factories would spring up and the present ones would not be in as good a position under a tariff, but we would have more factories and the country would benefit by an import duty.  Retailers would   have no interest in a tariff.  They would probably only sell the same amount and have the same profit.  The only people assured of benefiting by a tariff would be the producers and the consumers, but who is going to take the initiative?  We have no organisation of producers or consumers that would ask the Minister for Finance for a tariff on bacon.  We have no philanthropist amongst them who is prepared to put up the fee, which I believe would be large in this case, because the number of witnesses and the amount of evidence that would have to be taken would probably be large.  We, therefore, believe that the Commission which would be set up, whether it would consist of or include the present personnel or not, should have power to examine into industries that have not put in an application for a tariff, and should have power to recommend a tariff on any industry, whether it be a manufacturing or an agricultural industry. 
     
      
       Whether they want it or not? 
     
     
      
       Whether they want it or not.  The point is whether the country wants it or not.  The present policy, as Deputy Lemass has said, is a sort of lukewarm policy with regard to tariffs. Certain things are being done that are bringing the policy into disrepute.  If we had a proper Tariff Commission set up it could deal with these matters as it thinks right.  I know a small industry, now protected, and which before protection was doing some business outside the country.  If the people in that industry now sent a sample to England, say, and it is not suitable and is returned, the manufacturer has to pay a tariff on it coming back.  That has been responsible for doing away with any external trade this firm had, but they are finding now that their internal trade is just as good as it was on account of the tariff, but it could be doubled&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Does any manufacturer want a sample returned? 
     
     
      
       Perhaps if I mentioned the particular sample the Deputy would understand.  The industry to which I refer is that of knitted costumes,   and the Deputy may be aware that if a costume does not fit it is sometimes returned.  I have also heard that if a motor part has to be got from outside the country, or from England, at any rate, if it is not the part required and has to be returned again, the tariff has to be paid both ways.  Those are small matters that a real Tariff Commission, enthusiastic about a tariff policy, would soon make right, and so avoid the particular complaints made against the policy at present. 
       I believe that the motion as it stands is better than the amendment.  I agree that the amendment in many points is similar, but in a few small points there is a difference. Therefore, I agree with Deputy Lemass's motion.  I prefer the motion to the amendment. 
     
     
      
       I desire to make a few remarks in regard to this question of tariff reform.  Of course, every Deputy views tariffs from a different angle.  We have heard from different Deputies that the agricultural community should be protected by means of tariffs.  A lot of us know that the members of the farming community, at least in the southern portion of Ireland, are not tariff reformers. 
     
     
      
       The Deputy will be clear that we are discussing a Tariff Commission rather than tariff reform generally.  This is more restricted than an ordinary tariff debate; it consists merely of discussing the kind of Tariff Commission there ought to be. 
     
     
      
       I was just leading up to that.  If you confine me solely to the motion, you will be clipping my wings. 
     
     
      
       I am sorry to have to do that, and I do it all the more ruthlessly because the Deputy will have another opportunity of discussing tariffs for certain when we come to the Budget. 
     
     
      
       I hope when I do drift from what is actually before us that you will hold me up again.  What is wrong with the Tariff Commission that is now sitting?  What is wrong with the three gentlemen who compose it?   Are they giving us value for our money?  Are they considering the cases put before them from every angle?  I maintain that a Commission of three members is equal to a Commission of five.  You have picked out certain gentlemen to carry on the work of the Commission, gentlemen with intelligence and ability to handle the different questions put before them. Therefore, as far as a Commission of five is concerned, that should be deleted altogether. 
       The suggestion is made that we should have a whole-time Commission sitting.  If you have, look at the cost it will be to the country.  That Commission might have to sit to consider trivial subjects, and I say that trivial cases are put forward for tariffs.  We have heard all along that tariffs are necessary.  Perhaps they are.  If they are good for the country, put them on, but do not put them on until you have found out that they will be beneficial to traders.  I am not a tariff reformer or a whole-hogger by any means.  I would go a long way to meet any proposal to put on a useful tariff.  I say further that we can all render assistance ourselves if we support Irish manufactures.  For example, if we go in for a box of matches, let us accept Irish.  Usually a man goes into a tobacconist's shop and he does not mind what matches he gets.  We can all be tariff reformers in our own quiet way if we are Irish enough to support Irish manufactures.  As far as Irish industries are concerned, we can do a lot ourselves. 
       The amendment in the name of Deputy O'Connell is almost tantamount to the motion&mdash;&ldquo;to report on the probable effect of methods of assisting and protecting any industry by methods other than Customs duties.&rdquo; What are the ways and means we have of carrying out that portion of it? Certain individuals have to come before the Commission and give evidence, and all that must be done in Dublin. That is the fault I find with it.  The Commission should sit all over the country. 
     
     
      
       In Cork as well? 
     
     
      
       Yes.  Give us a turn,   and that is all we want.  It should sit also in Galway and Kilkenny.  I say the Tariff Commission should go to the principal cities for the sake of convenience to the manufacturing community. 
     
     
      
       Surely it would be a whole-time job then? 
     
     
      
       If you want to concentrate on Dublin, of course that is another matter.  Tariffs in any form cannot be rushed, no matter what Commission is sitting or what number of people constitute the Commission.  If you rush into a tariff on a certain article the probability is you might ruin the trade altogether.  If you take flour, for instance, people will tell you the price at present should be reduced. Why is it not?  Every Deputy knows well that all workmen have had a reduction in wages with the exception of the baker.  You see, therefore, as far as the poor people are concerned, and as far as the food of the infant is concerned you never get fair play at all.  If people are patriotic enough to do certain things they ought to volunteer to try to get the loaf of bread reduced at least for the poor people.  With these few remarks I think it is quite safe to say that the Commission sitting at present is quite capable of handling the matter, and there is no need for either the motion or the amendment that is before us this evening. 
     
     
      
       I want to show Deputy Carey and other members of the House where the present Tariff Commission fails.  First of all, as regards their terms of reference, I desire to make a few remarks.  Their powers are limited to considering matters that are put before them by certain manufacturers and considering only the proposals made by those manufacturers.  For instance, the milling industry put forward a proposal a short time ago for a tariff on flour.  There are other means of meeting the situation created by the importation of flour than by imposing a tariff on the flour coming in.  If you put a tariff on foreign flour, in my opinion and, I think, in the opinion of practically every member of the House, it will raise the cost of living; it will raise the cost of bread.  But if you prohibit the importation of flour and come   to an agreement with the milling industry, an agreement which the majority of the millers in Cork County and, I think, in other parts of the Free State are prepared to accept, namely, that if we prohibit the importation of flour they will sell the home-made article at current Liverpool prices, it will lower the price. 
       The present Tariff Commission could not consider that proposal because it would be outside its terms of reference. The terms of reference confine them solely to the consideration of applications put forward by the industries concerned. If they are confined solely to considering the effect of a tariff on flour it would be a different matter altogether to consider a proposal like the proposal I have put forward.  But the present Tariff Commission could not consider that proposal, and that is one of the defects of the present Tariff Commission.  Deputy Carey wanted to know in what way were the wings of the present Tariff Commission clipped. Well, that is one way in which their wings were clipped.  Another way is one in which the constituency that Deputy Carey and I represent is closely concerned, namely, the importation of malt.  I do not think that the brewers who are importing this malt are going to look for a tariff on that article. 
     
     
      
       I was raising that question a few moments ago, and I was prevented. I was going to travel on those lines, but I was prevented. 
     
     
      
       I do not think the present Tariff Commission can consider the question of the importation of malt, no matter how pressing the subject may be, because the brewers, who are the people mostly affected, are not going to bring it up before them.  The brewers are the people who are importing the malt, and they are certainly not going to bring up the importation of this article, which, as Deputy Carey stated here a short time ago, means that 300 people are doomed to idleness in Midleton alone.  That is another defect in the Tariff Commission.  I do not think that the present Tariff Commission, consisting of part-time officials who spent nine months considering a tariff on rosary beads, is the kind of Commission   that is going to do anything more than what, in my opinion, they were set up to do, namely, to prove, falsely. to my mind, that the idea of tariffs was of no use whatsoever to this country.  In my opinion, the Tariff Commission was put there to mark time.  Even if they wanted to do any good, they could not do it.  Their wings are absolutely clipped.  If an industry brought forward a proposal before them, they could not consider an alternative proposal.  They are precluded from doing so by their terms of reference. Last year we had imported into this country £1,504,000 worth of wheaten flour.  In the course of six months that amount of flour was imported into the country, and the only remedy the millers can bring forward is a tariff on foreign flour.  A tariff of that kind is definitely going to raise the cost of living.  I do not think that any man in his senses can deny that it would raise the cost of living.  If the Tariff Commission were free when the flour millers came before them to put forward alternative proposals and to consider alternative proposals, such as the alternative proposal I have put forward here, namely, the prohibition of any flour coming into the country&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       The Labour Party refused to agree to that. 
     
     
      
       took the Chair. 
     
     
      
       I am not concerned with what any Party refused.  I think the Labour Party are well able to answer Deputy Byrne.  If the Tariff Commission were free to consider a proposal like the prohibition of the importation of flour into this country, in view of the increased employment and the increased revenue that that would bring to the flour millers through their being able to work their mills to their full capacity and to increase their turnover, that alternative proposal, in my opinion, would be adopted and would mean a very definite benefit to this country. 
     
     Last year there were also imported into this country maize products.  I do not know whether the Tariff Commission has gone into the question of prohibiting the importation of Indian meal into this country.  I do not want to   prohibit the importation of maize grain, but I want to prohibit the importation of maize meal.  That is an industry that can very well be carried on with a profit in this country.  It is an amazing state of affairs that maize can be brought into England, milled there, and then shipped to Ireland.  I fear I am digressing. 
     
      
       You are. 
     
     
      
       In my opinion the present Tariff Commission is worse than useless for it is trying to bring odium on Irish industries.  The idea of a Tariff Commission composed of three gentlemen, one well versed in agriculture, we are told, another well-versed in industry and commerce, and another in finance, spending nine months going into the question of rosary beads!  I suppose they spent half an hour each week at it.  I wonder what their pay for that half an hour was.  We see here also that even though an industry applies for a tariff, that application must first go before the Minister who has to consider it.  &ldquo;The said Minister may, if he so thinks fit, refer such application to the Commission&rdquo;&mdash;so that if we have here a Minister who does not believe in tariffs in a particular industry, no matter how good the case that industry may make, if that industry chooses to make application to the Minister the Minister need not let that application go before the Commission at all. 
     
     I never saw any Commission put into such a straight jacket as the present Tariff Commission have been put into. When they started to sit, even if they wanted to do any good, they could not do it under their terms of reference. Therefore, I think it is absolutely necessary that we widen their scope and give them an opportunity of doing good if they are inclined to do good.  I do not think that Civil Servants or any other gentlemen of that description are fit and proper persons to inquire into anything whatsoever in this country. Those gentlemen are there with their salaries cut out for them and they need not care whether the agricultural industry goes down the hill or not or   whether the flour milling industry goes down the hill or not.  they need not care because their salaries are quite safe.  Therefore, I support the motion to widen the powers of this Tariff Commission and give them an opportunity of trying to do some good. 
     
      
       The Tariff Commission as at present constituted is composed of three very reputable and very respectable Civil Servants under the jurisdiction of a Government which is particularly careful to inform us that all Civil Servants hold their offices at the will and pleasure of the Executive Council.  That is the first fact you have to remember in relation to this Tariff Commission.  The second fact is that we have had some experience of the treatment of the decisions of that Commission by a Minister at whose will and pleasure these Civil Servants hold their offices.  We have had a case where on evidence which was not disclosed to this House&mdash;presumably upon evidence if it existed at all which was privately communicated and personally I do not believe such evidence does exist&mdash;the Minister for Industry and Commerce used the report of that Tariff Commission for the purpose not of benefiting an industry of this country but of publicly slandering it; using the report, and the evidence if there was any evidence which he received from the people who hold office at his will and pleasure, to libel and slander an industry.  You have had another case where that Commission of Civil Servants, while sitting and considering an actual tariff, is told here in this House what the Ministry will or will not do and what the Ministry will or will not permit.  You have a gross and culpable misrepresentation by a Minister of the House of evidence given before the Tariff Commission in relation to a case which was then  sub judice.   Founded upon that misrepresentation you have an anticipatory decision intimated to that Commission by the Ministry to whom they are responsible. I would be in favour of a Commission which did include Civil Servants, and coming new to this proposition I have defended the inclusion of Civil Servants.  Having regard to that and to our actual experience of the sort of treatment which is to be meted out   to them&mdash;remember this is a judicial Committee with judicial powers and is supposed to be independent&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       How are they affected by the Government if they have judicial powers? 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy stay quiet?&mdash;but I think I am asking the impossible. You have a Commission, however, which, while actually judging a case, is told what it shall and shall not do, and what the Ministry will or will not consent to do.  You may have supermen.  I mean you may have some means of selecting supermen for your Civil Service, but unless you have supermen or some machinery for selecting automatically supermen and only supermen for your Civil Service, your Civil Servants, while holding their positions at the will and pleasure of the Executive Council, should not be subjected to treatment of that kind, nor should the House be insulted by being asked to regard as a judicial body a body whom their masters put pressure on of that character.  It is a fairly good sample type of idea as to what the administration do regard as independence in a judiciary and in a judicial body.  If it was one single instance one would not mind, but it is part of the whole history of their relations with judicial bodies. You have had exactly the same experience in relation to the judiciary.  For instance, there was quoted here in the House a judgment by Mr. Justice Hanna.  It was not a hasty judgment. It was made after meditation and it was made in writing.  It was quoted in this House as something which would be authoritative among laymen, but what happened?  The Minister for Justice had the impudence to dismiss that judgement in a single word.  He said: &ldquo;He is wrong.&rdquo; 
     
     
      
       Tariffs. 
     
     
      
       I am dealing with the judicial functions of a body set up under the control of this Executive. 
     
     
      
       I submit the speaker is out of order. 
     
     
      
       That is simply a sample. You have now a judicial body which I am using as an illustration.  It does not   know any law.  Your High Court judges do not know any law, according to the Minister for Justice.  The Minister for Justice dismisses with an  ipse dixit  the judgment of his own Court. That is the kind of respect that is shown for judicial bodies by this Executive body.  How can you expect them to respect the independence of a body which is made up of people who hold their jobs at the will and pleasure of the Executive Council?  You had exactly the some thing in relation to the decision of your Courts in the case of the Land Bill of 1926.  This Executive again had the impertinence&mdash;that is their outstanding characteristic&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       I submit the Deputy is grossly out of order. I fail to see how his remarks are relevant to this discussion on the Tariff Commission. 
     
     
      
       It is my duty to see that the Deputy is in order.  I imagine the Deputy is trying to establish the case that the Executive Council would not have any respect for the decision of this type of body.  I am waiting for him to develop that point. 
     
     
      
       He is ten minutes at it. 
     
     
      
       Time is up. 
     
     
      
       If it takes an hour to make the Deputy understand, it will be necessary to do it, and in order that I may work it out, to fit exactly his type of understanding, I will now move the adjournment of the debate. 
       Debate adjourned. 
     
   
   
     PRIVATE DEPUTIES' BUSINESS. - ADJOURNMENT DEBATE&mdash;APPOINTMENT OF SUB-POSTMASTER. 
     
      
       Ta daoini ann agus ceapann siad na ceart cur sios ar aon cheist a bhaineas leis an nGaoluinn no leis an nGaeltacht ac amhain as Gaoluinn agus na ceart aon sceal eile do phleidhe as Gaoluinn&mdash;aon sceal tabhachtach go haithrid.  Ni duine de na daonigh sin mise.  Ba mhaith liom go dtuigfeadh Runaidhe Pairliminte d'n Aire an rud ata agam le radh agus, ar an abhar san, labharfad as Bearla. 
     
     I put a question to the Parliamentary   Secretary to the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs which consisted of four parts.  I got answers to these four divisions of the question, but the only portion which was satisfactory was that which stated that the person selected as sub-postmaster for Dunfanaghy, Tirconaill, has not yet been finally confirmed in the post.  In his reply, the Parliamentary Secretary stated that he was not aware whether or not the candidate, who was fully qualified in Irish, had, or had not, a knowledge of telegraphy.  He asserted that the candidate who was qualified in Irish was not qualified in other respects. I should like to know from the Parliamentary Secretary what qualifications, exactly, are required for a sub-postmaster; who makes the appointment; with whom does the ratification lie&mdash;with the Parliamentary Secretary, or with the Secretary to the Post Office, or with the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs?  One of the applicants for this post, who is fully qualified in Irish, is a trained national teacher who is no longer in the service of the Department of Education.  I submit there are many sub-postmasters in Ireland who have not got the educational qualifications that this candidate possesses. One of the great things urged in favour of the person who was selected was that he had a knowledge of telegraphy. Therefore, in the opinion of the Parliamentary Secretary, a knowledge of telegraphy is of much greater importance in the Gaeltacht for a sub-postmaster than a knowledge of Irish.  I submit that a knowledge of Irish should be essential in such circumstances and that it would be easier for an Irish speaker, who is a trained teacher, to learn telegraphy than for a person who has some slight knowledge of telegraphy to learn Irish.  I submit that the Irish speaker should be given the preference.  We are not told that the person who knows Irish well does not also know telegraphy. 
     There was reference made to the practice of the Post Office in these matters.  Reference was made also to the White Paper.  I suggest that it is neither economical nor efficient to appoint to a post office in the Gaeltacht a person who is to pay somebody else   to do the work while he draws the salary.  That does not make for efficiency or economy.  Dunfanaghy is not the only instance of this anomaly.  I would ask that when vacancies occur in such places as Belmullet, Blacksod, Dingle, Waterville and elsewhere, where the postmasters are ignorant of Irish, the alleged policy of the Post Office should be carried out and a knowledge of Irish required from those who are appointed to succeed them. The dates in connection with this Dunfanaghy appointment are rather significant. I believe, from what I know of local history, that the roots of the matter go back to 1925.  Perhaps the Parliamentary Secretary understands what I mean by that.  If he makes inquiries locally he will understand.  The vacancy occurred towards the end of September or the beginning of October. I had a letter on the 28th October stating that, if at all possible, an Irish speaker would be appointed.  the matter was adjourned time and again &mdash;I do not know why.  The appointment was made within one week of the adjournment of the Dail.  Whether that was a coincidence or not I do not know. 
     
      
       Previous to or after the adjournment? 
     
     
      
       After.  I could not get information from the Post Office on the day the House adjourned as to whether an appointment had been made or not in this case.  The appointment was either made afterwards or the information would not be given to a Deputy of this House.  On the 31st December, finding that a sub-postmaster without a knowledge of Irish had been appointed, the Parliamentary Secretary was written to.  I will translate the reply, because I am sure the Parliamentary Secretary would not understand the Irish.  The reply states: 
       Mr. Heffernan asks me to state that the person selected has not much knowledge of Irish, 
       I know that is true. 
       but that a condition of his appointment is that he will appoint an assistant with a good knowledge of Irish. 
     
     The appointment has not been yet ratified, and I would ask the Parliamentary Secretary to state whether or   not the services of that assistant have been secured.  The point was raised here, in favour of the person appointed, that he was at one time in the service of the Post Office&mdash;not as an official but as an employee of the sub-postmaster. That provides him with no claim whatsoever, if the reply I got on a previous occasion from the same Department be accurate.  There was, in a place called Nobber, an assistant who had been employed, not officially but by the sub-postmistress, for twelve years.  That assistant acquired a fluent knowledge of Irish and a knowledge of telegraphy as well.  The sub-postmistress died and the assistant applied for the post.  The reply I got from the Post Office was that this Irish speaker, who had become thoroughly efficient and proficient in the work, had no claim whatsoever, as she had not been in the direct employment of the Post Office. 
     As regards the general attitude of the Post Office towards the Gaeltacht, I find that President Cosgrave, in his letter to the Gaeltacht Commission, states, in 1925: 
     The future of the Irish language depends largely on its continuing in an unbroken tradition in the homes. 
     In the same letter, which is reproduced in the introduction to the Commission's report, he says: 
     The language problem and the economic problem are in close relation to each other. 
     In Section 93 of the report, I find it stated: 
     It is the fact and not the sentiment which impresses the Irish-speaking population, for officials influence their lives in many respects. 
     If a person who does not know Irish is appointed to a post in Dunfanaghy, and to lucrative positions in other districts in which there are many Irish speakers, how are these people to believe that this Government is in carnest in respect of the recommendations which are contained in the Gaeltacht Report?  &ldquo;The work of administration,&rdquo; this Report states, &ldquo;should be placed forthwith in the hands of competent Irish-speaking officials in Irish-speaking districts, if we wish to restore the position and the   prestige of the native language.&rdquo;  In the White Paper, to which the Parliamentary Secretary has referred, it is stated: 
     The present practice of the Post Office is to appoint to all posts in the Gaeltacht only persons with a competent knowledge of Irish where such persons are available. 
     That practice must be very recent, if it did not apply in Dunfanagy a few weeks ago.  I should like to know from the Parliamentary Secretary what particular qualifications are required and in what respect the applicant who is a fluent Irish speaker was deficient; who makes such appointments; whether it would not be both cheaper and more efficient to appoint the well-educated Irish speaker and let her learn telegraphy, and let her appoint some assistant temporarily so that she might acquire a knowledge of telegraphy, than to put in some person with a knowledge of telegraphy but no Irish; and also whether it is simply a pious resolution or a lie that the present practice of the Post Office is to appoint to all posts in the Gaeltacht persons with a competent knowledge of Irish, where such persons are available. I submit such a person was available in Dunfanaghy, that it is hypocrisy to put that into a White Paper, and that if the rest of the White Paper on the Gaeltacht Report is as true as that paragraph, the sooner it is committed to the flames the better. 
     
      
       In rising to support this protest with regard to the Dunfanaghy Post Office made by Deputy Fahy, I must say the facts caused me a considerable amount of surprise&mdash; surprise in regard to the attitude adopted by those in control of the Post Office Service in comparison to what it was some time ago.  It may be alleged by Deputies on the Government benches, or by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Post Office, that no change has taken place in their attitude towards the Irish language.  But I allege a very big change has taken place.  I say this is not the first occasion on which the question of an appointment with regard to Dunfanaghy Post Office was discussed in this House. On the 3rd of April, 1925, Deputy   Myles raised the question of the appointment of Mr. O'Duffy to the post office at Dunfanaghy.  Apparently, Deputy Myles on that occasion objected to Mr. O'Duffy being appointed, and the then Minister for Posts and Telegraphs, Mr. J.J. Walsh, in reply to Deputy Myles, stated: &ldquo;Mr. O'Duffy has a fluent knowledge of the Irish language, an essential qualification held by one other candidate to the position.&rdquo;  This other candidate is not the man now appointed to the post office.  I hold, in view of that statement of Mr. Walsh in the year 1925, that the attitude of the Post Office instead of having improved is in the opposite direction. 
     
     As far as this particular place is concerned, I hold it is absolutely essential that an Irish speaker should be appointed to the position of sub-postmaster. In the Dunfanaghy District Electoral Division there are 1,123 people.  Out of that number, 359 are Irish speakers, a percentage of 32 of the total population.  In the rural district of Dunfanaghy the total population is 13,290.  Of these 11,579 are Irish speakers, a percentage of 87.1. I think that those figures prove that a sub-postmaster who has a knowledge of Irish should have been appointed. It appears that the statement has gone forth from the Parliamentary Secretary that the person appointed has liberty to appoint an Irish-speaking assistant. I would like to draw the attention of this House to Recommendation 30 of the Report of the Gaeltacht Commission, that where it is the duty of an officer to use Irish in the performance of his work his headquarters shall invariably communicate with him in Irish, and also his superior officers when so competent.  It will be necessary for this man to conduct some of his business in Irish.  He will not be able to do it.  It means that his assistant will have to do it for him, and will have to translate the important communications which he gets from Dublin.  If they carry that recommendation out it means they will have to communicate with Dunfanaghy Post Office in the Irish language.  That means that the sub-postmaster you have appointed will not be able to understand   the messages.  Consequently he will have to call in the aid of an assistant, if he succeeds in getting an assistant, which, I understand, he has not done up to the present time. 
     In view of the publicity given to this matter as far as the people of Donegal are concerned, in view of the disgust expressed by the people of Donegal, and also in view of the fact that the Parliamentary Secretary for Posts and Telegraphs has stated that some people were in favour of the appointment and others against it, I want to know is it the idea of the Government that they should put these recommendations of the Gaeltacht Commission into operation or not?  This particular appointment proves to me and to a large number of people in Donegal that the Government are altogether insincere in their attitude towards those recommendations. I would, therefore, appeal to the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs to look into this matter with a view to getting an Irish speaker for the office competent to deal with the people coming in and speaking in Irish, and competent to deal with communications from Dublin in Irish. 
     
      
       In this matter of the Dunfanaghy Post Office, it is alleged&mdash; I think there is some foundation for it &mdash;that it is not the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs who makes the appointments at all.  On the last two occasions it appears that some outside influence was responsible for those appointments. As Deputy Fahy has stated, in this matter of appointments to post offices the recommendations of the Gaeltacht Commission appear to be so much eyewash. Of course these recommendations will be dealt with in proper course.  Apart from the fact that 83 per cent. of the people are returned as Irish speakers in this district, those not recorded as Irish speakers are mostly bi-lingual.  It is only in cases where they are not able to transact their business in Gaelic that they do so in English.  It is the experience of everybody&mdash;it must have been apparent to the Minister for Fisheries when going around these districts of the Gaeltacht&mdash;that if you go into a shop   or post office and stay there for half an-hour or so you will find people coming in who, in 80 per cent. of the cases, transact their business with the shopkeeper or postmaster in Gaelic. Even where these people are able to use a certain amount of English, they would much rather do their business in Gaelic, because they can do it more efficiently than in English. 
       Deputy Fahy has put up practically all the points in connection with the case that can be put up, but there is this other point, that if these recommendations of the Gaeltacht Commission are to be taken seriously it is a most remarkable start to make&mdash;in a district where 83 per cent. of the people are native Irish speakers, and where the remainder, not regarded as native speakers, are bi-lingual&mdash;to appoint somebody as postmaster to transact public business who has no knowledge of Gaelic.  It would be easier to appoint someone with a knowledge of Gaelic and a good scholar into the bargain than to appoint an assistant to this man.  There must be some little thing behind it other than what the Parliamentary Secretary has told us; that is, from the point of view of the qualifications required, because if the Parliamentary Secretary makes inquiries round the district of Dunfanaghy he will discover that there is a very widespread opinion as to who was responsible for the appointment, and that person was not the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs. 
     
     
      
       I should like to ask: is it not a fact that the guiding principle in this appointment was the fact that the person who has been appointed can be relied upon to wear the &ldquo;Poppy&rdquo; on the next Armistice Day, while the man who was rejected could not? 
     
     
      
       I think this matter has resolved itself into two questions&mdash;the general question of Government policy with regard to the appointment of sub-postmasters in the Gaeltacht, and the particular local question in regard to the appointment to Dunfanaghy sub-post office.  I   said in answer to Deputy Fahy's question that the policy of the Department is the policy laid down in the White Paper issued by the Executive Council in regard to the appointment of Post Office officials in the Irish-speaking districts. But the Deputy must understand, and the House, I am sure, will appreciate, that it is quite impossible for my Department to regard a knowledge of Irish as the only qualification. It is part of our policy that we should appoint an Irish-speaker in an Irish-speaking district.  It is a policy that we have insistently and consistently carried out, and I am prepared to stand over the fact that we have consistently carried out that policy.  But there are other requirements and qualifications, and some of those qualifications are essential.  A knowledge of Irish alone cannot and will not be regarded by my Department, and by me as head of that Department, as the only qualification necessary.  When I came to examine the applications for this position, I found that the only other candidate who had the essential qualification in Irish, was not, in my opinion, adequately qualified in other regards. 
     
     
      
       Would the Parliamentary Secretary state in what regard? 
     
     
      
       Will the Deputy allow the Parliamentary Secretary to state it? 
     
     
      
       There are many very obvious requirements and qualifications. There are the qualifications of education, intelligence, premises, financial stability, general character, and others. 
     
     
      
       Loyalty to Empire. 
     
     
      
       In my opinion, leaving aside the question of the knowledge of Irish, there was no question as to which of the candidates had the best qualifications.  In my opinion, the candidate who has been appointed, with the reservation that he must get an Irish-speaking assistant, was far and away the best qualified candidate, apart from a knowledge of Irish.  There is also a qualification which we must take into account&mdash;although it cannot be regarded as a definite claim for appointment&mdash;the   qualification of post office experience.  The particular candidate selected had extraordinary qualifications in regard to post office experience. He had 28 years' experience in the post office. 
     
     
      
       In what capacity? 
     
     
      
       He was qualified as an expert telegraphist who had been accustomed to dealing with the public for 28 years, and for a long time in the Gaeltacht.  In my opinion, the qualifications which this particular candidate had were such that they entitled him to be appointed, in view of the fact that the other candidate did not fulfil the requirements in regard to these qualifications. We heard a good deal of talk about the expressions of dissatisfaction which were made manifest. How were they made manifest?  They were made manifest almost altogether by anonymous letters in the local papers, particularly in the &ldquo;Derry Journal.&rdquo;  By whom were they inspired? Perhaps the people around Dunfanaghy know best.  But there was also a very strong manifestation of satisfaction in regard to the appointment of the candidate selected.  I am sorry to say that the spirit behind this agitation which has been got up in regard to this particular appointment is not a spirit in favour of the Gaelic movement, but is really a spirit and a movement in favour of the candidate who was not appointed.  As a proof of that, or as an indication of why that is so, I want to point out that on the occasion of the appointment which was made in 1924.  When we did appoint an Irish speaker&mdash;and I might say that in making that appointment in 1924 the Post Office Department regarded a knowledge of Irish as a very important factor&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       Essential. 
     
     
      
       And the main reason why the candidate then selected was selected was because of his knowledge of Irish.  The candidate who was at that time rejected is the candidate now appointed.  It was considered that, apart from a knowledge of Irish, he was the better qualified candidate, and he would have been appointed then   were it not for the restrictions in regard to the knowledge of Irish.  The candidate then appointed, mainly because of his thorough knowledge of Irish, did not prove a success, making it pretty clear that we must lay stress upon other qualifications besides that of a perfect knowledge of Irish.  We learned from experience in that particular case that the candidate appointed was not a success because we did not lay the stress we ought to have laid upon the other requirements which a candidate must have. 
       We hear a great deal about the local dissatisfaction manifested.  We all know that dissatisfaction is always manifested in regard to the appointment of sub-postmasters.  I have never yet made an appointment in which dissatisfaction was not manifested.  And in regard to the appointment made in 1924, when we appointed an Irish-speaking sub-postmaster, dissatisfaction was expressed.  I have here a petition signed with hundreds of names, and the foremost is the signature of Mr. Ramsey, the husband of the candidate not selected this time.  That petition was in opposition to the then appointed sub-postmaster, who was an Irish speaker.  I shall read an extract from that particular petition: 
       &ldquo;One of the applicants&rdquo;&mdash;referring to the gentleman appointed&mdash;&ldquo;has been connected with the present Dunfanaghy Post Office for the past 28 years and on several occasions during that period has been in charge of same, giving entire satisfaction to the Post Office authorities and also to the public.&rdquo; 
       That is an excerpt from the petition. That petition was sent in against the Irish-speaking sub-postmaster appointed in 1924, and it was signed at the head of the list by the husband of the candidate in regard to whom the agitation is now got up.  I want to say finally&mdash;&mdash; 
     
     
      
       On a point of explanation, I want to say I did not know the name, the religion, or the politics of any canddate when I first wrote and asked for an Irish speaker to be appointed, and I have not since asked the religion or the politics of the candidates. 
     
     
     
      
       I mentioned neither religion nor politics.  With regard to dealing with the Irish-speaking public, we regard it as essential that in the Gaeltacht we must have in the sub-post offices officials capable of dealing with the Irish-speaking public in the Irish language, and we took the precaution in making this appointment of definitely stating that the appointed   sub-postmaster should appoint a competent fully qualified Irish-speaking assistant.  Unless the appointed candidate, within a reasonable time, secures the services of a fully-qualified Irish-speaking assistant he will not be retained in the post office. 
       The Dail adjourned until 3 o'clock on Thursday, 23rd February, 1928. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - BRITISH EX-SERVICE TEMPORARY GOVERNMENT CLERKS. 
     
      
       asked the President if he is aware that a large number of British ex-Service nonpermanent Government clerks transferred by the Imperial Government to the Irish Provisional Government under the Transfer of Functions Order, 1922, have received warning notices of discharge to hold themselves in readiness for dismissal at short notice, and if he will take immediate steps to have the operation of the Department of Finance Circular, 38/27 of the 31st December, 1927, suspended pending the findings of the Committee appointed by the Government to inquire into the grievances of British ex-Servicemen. 
     
     
      
       In common with all other temporary clerks the men in the category referred to in the question have been given warning notice of discharge. I am not aware that the number of men so notified is large and in any case the discharge of temporary clerks will be a slow process graduated to the ascertained personal circumstances of the individuals affected.  The original terms of temporary engagement of the men referred to in the question were on the same footing as those of all other temporary clerks.  They were   given the same opportunity of permanent retention as was given to all other temporary clerks who were in the service at the change of Government and any action for their discharge will proceed strictly in accordance with the terms of their engagement.  The official circular of the 31st December, 1927, merely continues the procedure for discharge which has been in operation for several years past.  The warning notice is a special concession to which temporary clerks were not entitled under the terms of their engagement.  I am not aware by what date the Committee of Inquiry will report, but while it is unlikely that any actual discharges of temporary clerks in any category will take place before the end of March, I am unable to agree that the general arrangements for discharge of temporary staffs should be suspended as suggested. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - POOR LAW COMMISSION REPORT. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Local Government and Public Health whether the report of the Poor Law Commission, 1927, has been considered by the Government, and if so, if he will state if it is proposed to introduce legislation to give effect to the Committee's recommendations. 
     
     
      
       The report of the Poor Law Commission is under consideration.  Until I am in possession of the views of the administrative bodies immediately concerned it would be premature to draft provisional proposals on which legislation would be based.  In the meantime every effort will be made to give effect to such recommendations as may be acceptable and which do not require legislation. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - DAIL LOAN SUBSCRIPTION. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance whether he is aware that Mr. Hugh Hennelly, The Square, Claremorris, County Mayo, subscribed £10 to the Dail Loan, 1919-1920; that Mr. Hennelly has not yet received a Savings Certificate, and if he will state the cause of delay and when a certificate will be issued. 
     
     
     
      
       Mr. Hennelly has applied for repayment in respect of a sum of £10 stated to have been subscribed by him to the Dail Eireann Internal Loan, but I regret that sufficient evidence is not at present available to justify the admission of his claim. Efforts are being made to obtain the necessary evidence, and a decision on Mr. Hennelly's application will be arrived at as early as possible. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - UNEMPLOYMENT GRANT EXPENDITURE. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Finance if he will make a return to the Dail of the expenditure of the £150,000 Unemployment Grant, stating the amount given to each county, the works on which it was expended, and the number of unemployed persons for whom work was provided. 
     
     
      
       The amount of the Relief Scheme Vote allocated to each county and the nature of the works in respect of which the allocations have been made are shown in the annexed statements, A and B, respectively.  The total estimated expenditure on the schemes to be undertaken by local authorities in respect of which grants amounting to £83,735 and one loan (free of interest) of £4,000 have been sanctioned is £441,000.  Including works supervised by the Land Commission and other departments, the gross total estimated expenditure on schemes undertaken as a result of the allocation of the amount voted is approximately £503,000.  I have no information as to the number of unemployed persons for whom work is being provided on the schemes to the cost of which contributions have been sanctioned. 
       
         STATEMENT A. 
       
       
         Relief Schemes Vote, 1927-28. 
       
       Amount allocated to each County. 
     
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
           
             County. 
             Allocation. 
           
         
         
           
             
             
             £ 
             s. 
             d. 
           
           
             Carlow 
             800 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Cavan 
             8,060 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Clare 
             6,950 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Cork (Borough) 
             4,000 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             ,, (County) 
             8,100 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             
               Donegal 
             9,150 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Dublin (Borough) 
             22,150 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             ,, (County) 
             7,240 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Galway 
             12,243 
             6 
             8 
           
           
             Kerry 
             9,250 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Kildare 
             1,180 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Kilkenny 
             1,050 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Laoighis 
             2,745 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Leitrim 
             5,500 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Limerick 
             6,050 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Longford 
             2,250 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Louth 
             3,500 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Mayo 
             7,500 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Monaghan 
             1,920 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Offaly 
             1,900 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Roscommon 
             6,100 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Sligo 
             7,050 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             
               Tipperary (N.R.) 
             3,060 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             ,,&nbsp; (S.R.) 
             2,165 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Waterford 
             1,050 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Westmeath 
             1,000 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Wexford 
             2,565 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Wicklow 
             3,500 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Reserved by Land Comsion for contingencies 
             1,650 
             0 
             0 
           
           
             Total, 
             £149,678 
             6 
             8 
           
           
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
           
         
       
     
     Grants of £875, £350 and £200 allocated to local authorities in Counties Kilkenny, Louth and Tipperary (N.R.), respectively, were not accepted, and were subsequently re-allocated to other areas. 
     
       STATEMENT B. 
     
     Statement showing the nature of the works in each county in respect of which allocations have been made from the Relief Schemes Vote, 1927-28. 
     Land Commission: Expenditure, £59,750. 
     Construction and repair of bog roads, improvement works on estates, small drainage schemes, etc., in Counties Donegal, Sligo, Mayo, Leitrim, Cavan, Roscommon, Galway, Longford, Clare, Kerry, Corkand Monaghan. 
     Department of Fisheries: Expenditure, £43 6s. 8d. 
     Part cost (one-third) of repairs to landing stage at Glinsk, Co. Galway. 
     Office of Public Works: Expenditure, £2,150. 
     Clearance of building site in Dublin Borough. 
     Local Authorities: Estimated Expenditure, £441,000. 
     
       
         
         
         
         
         
           
             County. 
             Nature of Work. 
           
         
         
           
             Carlow 
             Water Supply Scheme, Construction of Embankment. 
           
           
             Cavan 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes. 
           
           
             Clare 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes. 
           
           
             Cork (Borough) 
             Clearance of Housing Site. 
           
           
             Cork (County) 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes and Sea Defence Works (Youghal). 
           
           
             Donegal 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes and Road Works. 
           
           
             Dublin (Borough) 
             Clearance of Housing Sites. 
           
           
             Dublin (County) 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes, Clearance of Housing Sites, improvements to Reservoir (Killeek). 
           
           
             Galway 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes, Levelling Salthill Park. 
           
           
             Kerry 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes. 
           
           
             Kildare 
             Road Works. 
           
           
             Kilkenny 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes and Road Works. 
           
           
             Laoighis 
             Water Supply Scheme and Road Works. 
           
           
             
               Limerick 
             
               Water and Sewerage Schemes and Repairs to Shannon Embankment. 
           
           
             Longford 
             Road Works. 
           
           
             Louth 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes. 
           
           
             Monaghan 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes. 
           
           
             Offaly 
             Sewerage Schemes and Road Work. 
           
           
             Roscommon 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes. 
           
           
             Sligo 
             Water Supply Scheme and Clearance of Housing Site. 
           
           
             Tipperary (N.R.) 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes, Clearance of Housing Site, Improvement to Reservoir (Thurles). 
           
           
             Tipperary (S.R.) 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes, Clearance of Housing Site, Road Work, Repairs to Quay Walls (Carrick-on-Suir). 
           
           
             Waterford 
             Sewerage Scheme, Road Work. 
           
           
             Westmeath 
             Road Works. 
           
           
             Wexford 
             Water and Sewerage Schemes, Clearance of Housing Site. 
           
           
             Wicklow 
             Sewerage Schemes, Road Works and Sea Defence Works (Greystones). 
           
         
       
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION AND DIVISION OF LAND. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries whether it is the intention of the Land Commission to acquire for the purposes of sub-division amongst uneconomic holders the following nonresidential farms on the King-Harman Estate, near Boyle, County Roscommon. viz.: those of William Phibbs, 113 acre, at Keeloges, Boyle; Thomas Harte, 80 acres, at Carrickmore, Boyle; James Martin, 50 acres, at Carrickmore, Boyle; William Allen Smyth, 150 acres, at Ballykeavican, Boyle; John Healy, 50 acres, at Ardcarn, Boyle; Ralph W. Satchell, 100 acres, at Carrickmore, Boyle; William Jones, 80 acres, at Roycrofts Park, Boyle; Robert Boles, 120 acres, at Drum and Ballytrasna, Boyle; Fred Monson, 80 acres, at Grallagh, Boyle; Cecil Vaugh, 80 acres, at Grevisk, Boyle. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to come within the exceptions in Section 24 (2) of the Land Act, 1923, being held by the owners subject to Land Purchase Annuities. 
       In view of the fact that a very large quantity of lands is in the hands of the Land Commission in this county, and that other lands not subject to exceptions under Section 24 (2) are available and being inspected, the Land Commission cannot at present undertake to initiate procedure to acquire further lands subject to exceptions in this county at the present time. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - LANDING STAGES ON THE SHANNON. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries (a) if he will send an Inspector to investigate the condition of the landing stages on the mainland and also the islands of Inchmore and Inchturk on the Shannon; (b) if he is aware that the residents of those islands, who have recently been allotted holdings by the Land Commission, are unable to load stock either to or from the islands. 
     
     
      
       The condition of the landing stages on the islands of Inchmore used by the allottees of the estate of R.W. Smyth, Co. Westmeath, is being referred by the Land Commission to their Inspector to investigate.  The Land Commission had no information to the effect that these allottees were unable to load stock to or from this island and adjoining island of Inchturk. 
     
   
   
     WRITTEN ANSWERS. - ACQUISITION AND DIVISION OF MAYO LANDS. 
     
      
       asked the Minister for   Fisheries if he will state what steps are being taken to acquire the Lambert demesne, Brookhill, Claremorris, for the purpose of providing economic holdings for the small farmers in that district. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are considering the desirability of acquiring the lands. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that acute congestion exists in the parish of Kilcommon, South Mayo, and if he will state what steps, if any, are being taken by the Irish Land Commission to strip and divide the Frenchgrove farm on the Eagar estate, at Carras, the Lahinch demesne, and Coolaghbawn farm at Hollymount, and the Bloomfield farm at Bloomfield. 
     
     
      
       The lands of Frenchgrove and Coolaghbawn appear to be holdings of (1) James Joseph Hession and Mrs. Annie Fitzpatrick, situate in the townland of Frenchgrove on the estate of Francis J.M. Eagar, and (2) of Jas. Joseph Hession in the townland of Coolaghbawn on the estate of the Rev. and Hon. W.E. Bowen which are being dealt with under the Land Act, 1923. 
       The Land Commission have under consideration the question of the retention of these holdings under Section 28 of the Act with a view to their acquisition. 
       The Land Commission have taken proceedings under Section 24 (3) of the Land Act, 1923, for the acquisition of the lands of Lahinch demesne and Hollymount demesne.  These lands being subject to a Land Purchase Annuity are within the exceptions contained in Section 24 (2) (a) of the Act. The owner has objected to the acquisition of the lands and has exercised his right of requiring to be provided with a holding equally suitable and of not less value than the lands proposed to be acquired. Suitable lands for exchange which could be offered to the owner are not at present available. 
       The lands of Bloomfield are in the hands of the Land Commission and arrangements for the division thereof and the disposal of Bloomfield House are under consideration. 
     
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he will state the cause of the delay in dividing the lands known as Dillon's farm, Feamore, Tullrahan, Ballyhaunis, and if he will state the amount received per annum by the Irish Land Commission for the grazing of that farm. 
     
     
      
       The lands referred to comprise a holding of 135 acres on the More O'Farrell Estate, which the Congested Districts Board resumed for the relief of congestion.  The Land Commission hope soon to be in a position to deal with these lands in connection with the rearrangement of the neighbouring congested townlands.  The preliminary work of rearrangement will occupy some time, but it is hoped to have a scheme completed about September next.  In the meantime stock is taken on the lands, preference being given to tenants of small holdings. 
     
     
      
       asked the Minister for Fisheries if he is aware that acute congestion exists on the De Clifford Estate, County Mayo, and if he will state the cause of delay by the Irish Land Commission in acquiring the large grazing ranches held by Messrs. Cowan, Knockroe, Mayo Abbey, and Algie Togher, Hollymount, for the relief of congestion. 
     
     
      
       The Land Commission are engaged in negotiations with Mr. Cowan and Mr. Algie with a view to settling terms for the acquisition of lands in Knockroe and Togher. 
     
   
 